Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Publisher:
Institute of Advanced Studies in Education (IASE)
Deemed University
Propounder and Author:
Holistic view of
Human Behaviour
Edition: First (Hindi-english combined)
Propounder and Author
(Based on 5th Hindi edition of Manav Vyavhar Darshan)
Print: January 2012
Combined Hindi-English Edition
Note: The latest revision of this book can be downloaded from:
www.coexistentialism.info or www.madhyasth-darshan.info
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
It is my aspiration and blessing that every human being,
Propounder and Author,
Madhyasth Darshan Sah-astitva-vad
Translator's Note
I started working on translation of Madhyasth Darshan in
being felt from many quarters. I also needed a way to make
myself useful. These were the reasons for taking up this initiative.
This presentation is while I am still in the study stage.
The approach used for this translation is simple. I have
me for conveying the intended meaning. The places where I
words directly. The words chosen thus have been defined
according to Madhyasth Darshan. The original Hindi text is
provided alongside for ready reference.
Darshan. If Truth is communicable in one language then it
should be communicable in all languages. With this premise, I
accepted language to be no more and no less than a means for
English language and my command on English is at best
intermediate. This work is not an exhibition of literary talent
therefore. This is an attempt of communicating the intent in
original presentation of Baba ji (Shree A. Nagraj), so that
Madhyasth Darshan literature becomes more accessible to
English speaking people.
The authority of refining the content of Madhyasth
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Translator's Note
Darshan remains with Baba ji (Shree A. Nagraj), while I take
full responsibility for this English translation. The English
translation will undergo revisions in future. The refinement in
who study and teach with this book. This scope for refinement
is also our scope of collaboration in studying and realizing.
provided their moral and material support. I would like to
specifically mention here the names of Shree Anurag Sahay
(Bangalore), Shree B. R. Agarwal (Raipur), Shreemati Gowri
Dr. Surendra Pathak (Sardarshahar). I am thankful to IASE
University for taking up the task of publishing this book. This
project would not have been possible without the support of my
Lastly, I want to express my most sincere gratitude towards
is the very basis of this presentation.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The study of human being could not be achieved from
physiochemical object centered ideology rooted in
instability and uncertainty or Science. Neither could the
study of human being be achieved from idealistic
contemplation rooted in mystery. Both these ideologies
have pronounced human being as a kind of animal.
As an alternative, Madhyasth Darshan Sah-astitva-vad has
recognized and helped others recognize human being in
knowledge order, through existence rooted human
centered contemplation.
According to Madhyasth Darshan, only human being is
the knower in existence and existence in the form of
coexistence is the entire object of knowing. This itself is
the knowledge from holistic view (darshan). Along with
this, with the knowledge of jeevan (self) and knowledge of
has become studiable.
I have presented existence rooted human centred
contemplation, Madhyasth Darshan, Sah-astitva-vad in
literature for humankind to study.
Prior to existence rooted human centered contemplation,
initiated in spiritual knowledge from upasana and karma
based on vedic ideology.
and material world originated from Brahman.
Upasana : - Prescription for devotional practice towards
Manu Dharma Shastra : - Prescribes code of daily conduct
of four social classes (varna) in four life-stages (ashrama).
Karma kanda : - From conception till death, sixteen ritual
services are believed and their activites are prescribed.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Upon study of all the above, the following question arose
in my mind:How could the conscious and material world originated
illusion? Upon taking this inquiry to the vedic-scholars
state of samadhi. On the basis of its confirmation in
scriptures, I accepted to perform necessary activities for
studied entire existence manifested as coexistence and
obtained the complete-understanding by way of
realization. As a result, Madhyasth Darshan Sah-Astitvavad emerged in the form of literature as alternative.
According to scriptures of idealism and God-centered
According to Madhyasth Darshan - Knowledge is manifest,
communicable, knowable through path of study and its
evidence is universally achievable through human
behaviour.
According to materialism, or object centered ideology
rooted in instability and indefiniteness, Science is believed
to be knowledge. It asserts that human being establishes
the laws of nature. As alternative, according to existence
in the form of coexistence rooted human centered
contemplation knowledge postulates that existence is
stable, advancement and awakening are definite and entire
laws are natural eternal manifestations.
Existence is not just physical and chemical, but all physical,
chemical and conscious (jeevan) entities are inseparably
present in the Omnipresence. This itself is the essence of
Madhyasth Darshan, Sah-astitva-vad.
In the place where I started this bodily-journey, my
resounded of Vedanata, Upanishads and Darshan in the
form of language, sounds and tunes. My family had
tradition of carrying out invocations, worships,
supplication and prayers prescribed in Vedas.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
My family had scholars of highest-order with an attitude
of serving others (seva) and hard-work (physical labor) in
work and behaviour. Among these, I accepted the attitudes
of serving and hard-work (physical labor). I did have
questions on the scholarly baspect.
First question that emerged was - How can the conscious
and material world originated from true Brahman be an
Second question - How can Brahman be the cause of both
who holds and carries the word?
of sacred-word?
One more question emerged in that situation Fourth question - A Constituent Assembly was setup after
independence in India which - while not giving a definition
or a description of Nation, Nationality, or National
character - accepted the public representative to be worthy
in the Indian Constitution.
What is the meaning of public verdict and public
representative if votes could be influenced with money?
same time, it enlisted numerous castes, communities and
sects.
time, it mentioned reservation and its procedures.
What is the meaning of democracy when in elections of
public representatives votes could be influenced with
money?
In an effort to rid myself from the shackles of these
questions, at the suggestion of scholars, ved-murtis and
respected rishis-maharishis (great spiritual teachers and
I accepted Amarkantak to be an appropriate place to
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
I started sadhana in 1950. My sadhana attained maturity
in the decade of 1960.
In 1970, I came to accept that I had attained samadhi. In
the state of samadhi, my wants, thoughts and desires
state of sadhana used to happen everyday for twelve (12)
I accepted the sequence of samadhi, dharana and dhyan
as the procedure for achieving sanyam. Two years later,
after attaining the state of sanyam, I accepted the evidence
that samadhi had taken place. During the time from
samadhi till achievement of sanyam, I would also be in
sadhana from 12 to 18 hours. As a result, I came to realize
that entire existence is eternal manifestation in the form
of coexistence. This has been presented in literature as
Coexistence: - I understood that all material and conscious
nature is saturated and eternally present in the
In coexistence itself: - I understood evolution in atom in
the form of receptive and emissive atoms and atoms with
constitution fulfilled upon progress as eternal
In coexistence itself: - The constitutionally complete atom
or conscious unit was understood to be in the form of
In coexistence itself: - I understood, it is from receptive
and emissive atoms, molecules and pranic cells that entire
physical, chemical and pranic order formations are made
and earth is composed of atoms and molecules and
numerous earths are composed in the same way.
I understood in existence, on this earth - which is a
chemical processes, formations of pranic cells evolved in
the form of entire range of forests and vegetations and upon
from pranic cells alone and human body also evolved and
got established in the form of tradition (as continuity of
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
In coexistence itself: - I understood human being to be a
combination of jeevan and body eternally manifested as
human tradition.
In, from and for coexistence: - I understood, coexistence
to be eternally effective. I understood this itself to be the
Existential orderliness is in accordance with the way of
Material order
And I understood, in awakened human tradition alone a
human being is orderly with humanness and participates
in holistic orderliness as eternal grandeur. I believed this
to be the essence of universal goodness and accepted that
all human beings have natural-expectation of goodness.
As a result, I have presented before humankind the essence
and elucidation of Consciousness Development Value
Education, constitutional-framework for humanness,
essence and elucidation of conduct and orderliness of
May the earth be heaven, May humans be divine
May religion1 get realized, May goodness arise always.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Basic Elements of Madhyasth Darshan
Material and conscious nature saturated in the
Omnipotence, countless material and conscious
units saturated in the all pervasive Omnipotence.
All units saturated in all pervasive, transparent and
permeating Omnipotence are with form,
these are orderly within themselves and participate
in holistic orderliness.
Believe what has been known.
Know what has been believed.
Effort, Motion, Constitution
Sermon
May Earth be Heaven,
May humans be divine.
May religion get realized,
May goodness arise always.
Realization Knowledge
Let Live and Live
Wish for Universal goodness
State of Being
Continuously evolving nature saturated in the
Coexistence is eternal presence.
Realization itself is ultimate evidence,
Evidence itself is understanding or knowledge,
Manifestation of understanding itself is resolved
work and behaviour,
Resolved work and behaviour itself is evidence of
Evidence of realization itself is awakened tradition,
Awakened tradition itself is coexistence.
Actuality
Brahman is Real, World is Eternal
Brahman as Omnipotence is all pervasive, Jeevan
Human being is as combined expression of Jeevan
and Body.
Almighty (ishwar) is the Omnipresence, while divine
beings are Many.
Human race is One, Human actions are Many.
Earth is One (undivided nation), Nation states are
Human Religion is One, Resolutions are Many.
Jeevan is Eternal, Birth and Death are Events.
Reality
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Evolution and Progress in Coexistence
Expressions upon Awakening as Human tradition
with Understanding.
Knowledge
Knowledge of Jeevan in Coexistence
Knowledge of Holistic view (darshan) of Existence
in the form of Coexistence
Functional Completeness
Conduct Completeness
Nature saturated in Omnipotence (Coexistence)
Realization itself is Knowledge
Reference
Discovery from Exploration
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Physiochemical nature itself is in the stage of
evolution. Jeevan in evolved form is conscious unit.
The conscious unit or Jeevan itself evidences
undivided society in human tradition upon
awakening. Complete integrity as humanness and
social harmony.
Awareness (as completeness in cognition) and
integrity as godly humanness.
Complete awareness with naturalness as divine
Completeness,
Functional
Completeness, Conduct Completeness
Nature saturated in Omnipotence itself is the Cosmic
Nature itself manifests Existential orderliness
Orderliness in nature itself is in the form of
Advancement and Awakening itself is the Cosmic
Law itself is as Justice in Humankind, Justice itself
is manifestation of Religion in human-relationships,
Religion itself is manifestation of Truth, Truth itself
is the Grandeur of Coexistence, Realization in
itself is the anticipation of Jeevan, Jeevan is with
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Only a deluded human being is free at the time of
performing actions and is bound at the time of
experiencing results of those actions.
An awakened human being is free while performing
actions and is free also while experiencing results of
his actions.
Participation in Holistic orderliness.
Completeness in Human being
Functional Completeness
Conduct Completeness
Realization of Coexistence in the form of Tradition.
The Refuge of Humankind
Completeness in Society
All-round Resolution
Prosperity
Fearlessness
Human tradition as Evidence of Coexistence
Completeness in a Nation state
Proficiency in Skills
Proficiency in Behaviour
Proficiency in Knowledge
20. Completeness in Inter-nation (Undivided Nation)
Coherence (Universality) in Humane Culture,
Civilization, Norms and Orderliness
From Gross to Subtle
From Subtle to Causal
Evidence of Awakening
From Inhumanness to Humanness
From Humanness to Godly humanness
From Godly humanness to Divine humanness
26. Harmony
Orderliness for Conservation of Means in the form
of Body, Mind (conscious aspect) and Wealth
24. Movement towards Realization and
Orderliness for Good-use of Means in the form of
Body, Mind (conscious aspect) and Wealth.
Happiness, Peace, Contentment, Bliss
Religion of Humankind
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Jeevan is in a status of Harmony.
Evolution is in a status of Harmony.
Resolution is in a status of Harmony.
Awakening is in a status of Harmony.
Realization is in a status of Harmony.
Universal Harmony
Consistency and Coherence in the four aspects of
Human living (Work, Behaviour, Thoughts and
Realization), five statuses (Individual, Family,
Society, Nation and Inter-nation) and the Ten-staged
Family-rooted Self-organizing Orderliness.
Awakening as Realization in Truth (Liberation from
29. Accomplishment
Realization of Values manifested in Coexistence
Evidence of Resolution, Prosperity, Fearlessness and
Liberation from Delusion and Eternal Awakening
30. Completeness in Education
28. Supreme Harmony
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Technical Education (Skills)
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Author's Note
Human beings use their appearance, physical strength and
intellect to acquire certain social rank and wealth and all these
together have given rise to numerous human expressions across
the geographies of the world and according to their respective
needs a wish for mutual harmony is found to be there.
The divisions that are observable in humankind today are
due to their differences in customs and their excessive
expansionist tendencies. Every community got formed primarily
to get rid of fear. At first, humans invented objects of commonneeds (food, shelter, clothes) and weapons for getting rid of fear
of beasts and other forces of nature. When the same weapons
got used against each other in human beings - between two
The root cause of wars is differences in cultures, civilizations,
norms and systems. Along with this, there are expansionist
tendencies also. That is the central point. Each side in a struggle
believes its own culture and civilization to be superior than that
of other and it accepts expansion of its influence and property to
be judicious and therefore prophecies and expresses this belief
in conduct and behaviour. It is the same situation with every
From this history we learn, at its root every community or
division is genuinely pledged for attaining universality. Now a
path has become available for redeeming this pledge in the form
of evidences, from the point where we are at present, for realizing
universal and humane civilization, culture, norms and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Author's Note
I have got this auspicious opportunity for presenting
Madhyasth Darshan which gives the vision for realizing a society
without boundaries, quenching the thirst of justice found in every
human being, realizing the wish of living with resolution and
prosperity and achieving the holistic wish of complete acceptance
in coexistence by all humankind.
state of harmony in evolution stages of nature is based on
which can be seen or which can be understood by human being.
form. Vegetations or pranic order of nature has harmony based
on characteristics. Animal order of nature has mutually
complementary manifestations of want-to-be-alive and
evidences harmony based on their innate-nature (cruel-uncruel).
Harmony based on religion (happiness) is the only way for
realizing undividedness in humankind. It is not possible to
achieve completeness of harmony in the evolution stages prior
the case, as is evident. As a result, advancement to next evolution
stage (knowledge order) and plane (godly plane) is seen. Only
humankind (knowledge order) has the possibility of realizing
harmony based on religion. Achieving this harmony is the
existential purpose of humankind and making it within grasp of
all human beings is the aim of Madhyasth Darshan. Religion
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The Message
May Earth be Heaven, May humans be divine.
May religion get realized, May Goodness arise always.
Human beings found at present on this Earth, which is a
part of one among many universes in the all pervasive Space,
are extremely fortunate, because they have the golden
opportunity and means for studying and experimenting
advancement and deterioration in existence.
All-round resolution in coexistence is inspiring everyone
will not make mistakes or commit crimes and resultingly you
For appraising the value of self, the following naturally
evident fundamentals are required to be internalized and those
The Message
Earth is One (undivided nation)- Nation states are
Human race is One - Human actions are Many.
This proposal is for developing potential, ability and
receptivity in every human being for recognizing human
This proposal is for realizing natural continuity of
coexistence, balance, resolution, fearlessness and
This proposal is for becoming capable of living resolutely
own), righteous marital relationship (physical relationship
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The Message
This proposal is for achieving a simple path to move from
inhumanness to humanness and from humanness to superhumanness.
responsibilities naturally in undivided society and universal
This proposal is for realizing the expectation of humane
culture and civilization with its understanding.
(vii) This proposal is for developing culture and civilization of
humanness in the Nation (all Earth).
To make above study available to all, I experience great
(Holistic view of Human behaviour) to entire humankind.
I fully trust that after studying the facts indicated here,
this book will inspire you for instilling perspective, characteristics
and tendency of humanness in behaviour and it will help in
holistic development of your personality. And thereby:Earth itself will become heaven,
Humans themselves will become divine.
Religion will get realized,
And only good will happen always.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Basic propositions in
Basic propositions in Madhyasth Darshan
Omnipotence is the law of centeredness that is all
pervasive. Units of nature in Omnipotence are as activities of
attraction, repulsion and centeredness and are limited. Therefore
Omnipotence is complete-state.
Material and conscious nature in Omnipotence is in the
state of continuous-evolution, therefore nature is embraced and
inundated in Omnipotence. Being saturated in Omnipotence,
nature is completely energized, therefore continuously active and
thereby nature continuously manifests effort, motion and
constitution. As a result, nature is perceived in four evolution
stages as material order, pranic order, animal order and
knowledge order. Knowledge order (humankind) in existence
is always close for attaining the potential, ability and receptivity
for realization in coexistence and all four evolution stages are
inter-related for the existential purpose of manifesting
completeness and wholeness.
Omnipotence is the law of centeredness, therefore nature
saturated in Omnipotence is restrained and conserved. The
whereby its attraction and repulsion activities and relative forces
remain restrained and conserved.
Countless activities or groups of activities itself is nature,
which are as material and conscious. Material nature itself
attains the conscious plane upon progress (constitutionalcompleteness). This happens by the way of existential
orderliness. Human being is a combined form of material and
conscious and is also a part of nature.
Constitutional-completeness (jeevan) itself is
manifestation of Progress in the course of Evolution. Awakening
itself is manifestation of functional-completeness and conductcompleteness in the course of Awakening progression in deluded
humankind. An awakened human being does occupation with
less-evolved nature and realizes good-use and purposefulness.
Human being, in his behaviour with other human beings, holds
those in honour who are more awakened than himself and
thereby he practices, studies and contemplates for higher
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Basic propositions in
Only a deluded human being is free at the time of
performing actions and is bound at the time of experiencing
results of those actions.
Human beings on this Earth are in awakening progression
stage. They have the opportunity, anticipation and possibility
for becoming awakened. The primary trait of an awakened
human being is his being helpful to those in awakening
In existential progression, pranic order is more advanced
than material order, animal order is more advanced than pranic
order, pashu manav of deluded knowledge order is more
advanced than animal order, rakshas manav of deluded
knowledge order is more advanced than pashu manav, manav
with discernment (of delusion and non-delusion) is more
is more advanced than manav. Divya manav with complete
awakening is more advanced than dev manav.
Units of knowledge order (humankind) have the potential
of achieving holistic view (darshan). Holistic view (darshan) is
of material and conscious nature situated in Omnipresence.
Realization and holistic view becomes complete only in the
Understanding; Understanding itself is Holistic authority;
Holistic authority itself is Universal sovereignity; Universal
sovereignity itself is Undivided society and Universal orderliness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
I am grateful to all those guides of righteous path from
whom the sources of actuality are alive even today. Gratitude is
the fundamental value for progression towards awakening.
Gratitude itself is the foundation and conserving value for culture
and civilization.
One who is not grateful cannot produce evidence of bearing
culture and civilization. One who does not bear culture and
civilization cannot follow norms and orderliness.
Culture, Civilization, Norms and Orderliness are mutually
complimentary. Without these, it is not possible to determine
gratitude honour is not; without honour simplicity is not; without
simplicity coexistence is not; without coexistence, continuity of
The human being who lives with gratitude, only his conduct
is educative and inspiring for further generations. This is
achievable only in the purview of Humanness. Gratitude is for
all those who have been helpful, in whichever way, towards
Chapter Subject
Holistic view of Cosmic order
Existential purpose of Human being
Traits, Worlds, World views and Aims of Human beings
Laws of Human Behaviour
Justice in Humankind
Nurturing and Exploitation
Action and Result
Humane Behaviour
Planes and Transcendence
Ethics of Human-Religion
Non-delusion itself is Effortlessness
Ethics of Human-State
Liberation from Mysteriousness
Happiness, Peace, Contentment and Bliss
Holistic view - Observable Reality - Perspective
Liberation from Conflicts
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The pointers used in the book
The pointers used
in the book
Definitions
Context and Clarification
Reasoning of realizations and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-1
Chapter-1
material and conscious nature saturated in
Eternal (nitya): - Always present in the same way.
True (satya): - Always sensed, intuited and known in
the same way.
Pristine (shuddh): - Always blissful in the same way (in
Absolute (buddh): - Always gets understood in
the same way.
all places where nature is and where nature is not.
Omnipotence is permeable in material and conscious
nature and it is transparent in their mutualities.
Omnipotence is also termed as paramatma, Almighty,
Saturation (samprikt): - All material and conscious nature
is submerged, encircled and soaked in the Omnipotence.
This itself is coexistence, coexistence itself is eternal, this
itself is knowledge. In coexistence itself law, restraint,
balance, justice, religion and absolute truth are evident.
Material (jad): - Units that are continuously active within
the expanse of their length, width and height.
Conscious (chaitanya): - Units that are continuously active
in whirl-form in a span that is more than their length, width
and height.
Awakened human being alone is counted in the
Human being (manav): - One who materializes his ideas
and anticipates healthiness of mind and evidences the
same is known as human being.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-1
Behaviour (vyavhar): - The deployment of effort for more
than one human beings coming together or being together
is known as behaviour.
Holistic view (darshan): - Perception, understanding
and realization attained from perspective itself is known
as holistic view (darshan).
Perspective (drishti): - Activity of seeing, understanding,
recognizing and evaluating the realities is perspective.
Reasoning (vishleshan): - Elucidating definitions of
realities for explaining their purpose in existence.
Definition (paribhasha): - Group of words used to indicate
Omnipresence is undivided and units are
countless.
Omnipresence (vyapak): - That which is there at all places
and times and is eternally present.
Unit (ikai): - Body of matter limited from six sides (from
all sides) itself is unit. All units of nature are inseparably
present in the Omnipresent reality as coexistence.
Countless (anant): - That which cannot be captured in any
number itself is countless. That which a human being
is incapable of counting, nor does the need arise for
counting it, that itself is countless.
All pervasive Omnipotence is there in, from and
for an awakened human being as law at the time
of work and behaviour; as resolution at the time
of thinking; as bliss at the time of realization; as
nature saturated in the Omnipotence is in the form
of inseparable presence. This itself is coexistence.
Time (kaal): - Duration of activity itself is time.
Law (niyam): - The foundation of restraint in conduct
and activity itself is law.
Resolution (samadhan): - Being fulfilled by having
answers of every why and how itself is resolution.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-1
Bliss (anand) : - Realization in absolute truth in the form
of coexistence itself is bliss.
Justice (nyaya): - Behaviour of humanness in mutualities
Behaviour of Humanness (manviyata poorna vyavhar):
- Innate-nature of steadfastness, courage, generosity,
kindness, graciousness and compassion; holistic
perspective of justice, religion (orderliness) and truth; and
behaviour with motives of progeny, wealth and fame itself
is behaviour of humanness.
Human being has been and will continue to endeavour and
study for knowing, recognizing and becoming realized in,
from and for existence.
Knowledge
realization; Almighty (ishwar) because it is
always realized
everywhere; Supreme-lord because entire
activities are conserved and restrained in it;
Omnipresence because it is there everywhere in
the same way; Consciousness with conscious
nature; Paramatma because it is subtler
than atma; Absolute energy because every entity
is saturated and active in Omnipotence; and
Complete because of its untransformingness.
Realization in coexistence itself is exposition of
knowledge. Study is in, from, for realization in
coexistence. Knowledge itself is evidenced in the
form of wisdom and science. This is the essence
of humanness in knowledge order.
Knowledge while not doing activity itself or while not being
state of realization. Realized expression itself is knowledge.
Knowledge itself is the basis and source of inspiration for
entire positive (righteous) activities in an awakened human
Knowledge itself is all pervasive Omnipotence.
This itself is known as Space.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-1
The state (reality) of non-activity is known as Space and
knowledge while not doing any activity or while not being
an activity is the basis and source of inspiration of all
activities. Therefore knowledge and Space prove to be one
inspiration for activity always remains available. There is
no unit which is devoid of or liberated from knowledge or
Chapter-2
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-2
I offer my salutations with gratitude to the guides
of righteous path from whom the sources of
actuality are alive even today.
Gratitude (kritagyata): - Acceptance of the inspiration and
help received for advancement and awakening.
Righteous path (supath): - Definite direction towards
resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence.
Advancement (unnati): - Inspiration and help received for
upliftment (resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and
Sources of Reality (yatharthta ke strot): - Expression or
endeavour made in a realistic-way (without artificiality and
without pretensions). Clarifying existence to be in the form
of nature saturated in Omnipotence itself is source of
reality.
Tradition of instilling the understanding of absolute truth,
relative truth and objective truth is source of reality.
Salutation (vandana): - The endeavours of expressing
tendency for unopposed adoption itself is honour.
to simplicity, simplicity gives rise to naturalness,
naturalness gives rise to humanness, humanness
gives rise to coexistence and gratitude evolves in,
from and for coexistence.
Simplicity (saralta): - The way of thinking and behaviour
that is devoid of conceit and which expresses reality itself
is simplicity.
Conceit (abhiman): - Imposed criteria of appraisal of
realities. This itself is the flaw of over-valuation, undervaluation, or un-valuation.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Naturalness (sahajta): - Behaviour and tradition of
judicious behaviour devoid of pretentiousness and
mysteriousness.
Coexistence (sah-astitva):- Non-opposition in mutualities
and completely resolved expression itself is coexistence.
gratitude and ingratitude, and it gets evaluated
and appraised as such.
advancement towards awakening, its non-acceptance itself
is ingratitude.
Chapter-2
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Holistic view of Cosmic order
Chapter-3
Humankind has wished and endeavoured to
have tried to expound and explain the material and
conscious world, Almighty (ishwar) and self.
Cosmic order (srishti): - Constitution and formation of
matter and enriched Earth and evolution of pranic order,
animal order and knowledge order on Earth is Cosmic
Holistic view of Cosmic order is from distinctions
of formation, deformation, nurturing or
Deformation (visarjan): - Unit - Unit
Matter (padarth): - The entity (material or conscious) that
clears the distinction of meaning based on distinction of
its plane of existence is known as matter. The meaning of
an entity is its reality.
The activities of Cosmic order are only in
coexistence of absolute energy and matters.
Absolute Energy (nirpeksha oorja): - That which exists in
the form of Omnipresence but the cause of whose origin is
not proven, that is known as absolute energy.
Absolute energy is in the state of Omnipresence.
Space (shoonya): - That which in itself is not an activity,
but in which all activities are included, is known as Space.
Energy is with distinction of absolute and relative.
It is recognized and understood in the form of
is relative and absolute energy is eternally present
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Relative Energy (sapeksh oorja): - The force that is not
revealed without mutuality among units is relative energy.
The forces - such as pressure, wave and effect - that are
expressed due to or in mutuality among material entities
are recognized as relative energy. Heat, sound and
electricity are also relative energies.
Absolute energy enrichment is the cause of base
initiative in matters and in the absence of matter
the absolute energy is unrevealed. Nature is as
eternal presence in absolute energy.
Base initiative (mool cheshta): - The integral activity of
effort, motion and constitution itself is base initiative.
Entire matter in its atomic state is continuously active.
Therefore it is clear that energy is always immanent to
them. This itself is the absolute energy.
According to above, the coexistence of matter and absolute
energy proves to be in eternally inseparable form.
Human beings since long ago have remained unaware
about the source of energy required for continuous activity
found in atoms. Now this has become clear by way of
coexistence. The existence of this energy has been accepted
in the form of absolute energy because we find it at the
root of activities of atoms. Since this absolute energy is
homogeneously as Space. There is no activity which is
devoid of and without Space.
Space itself is
Omnipresence. Space itself is absolute energy, Space
itself is Omnipotence.
The difference in absolute energy and matter is so much
entities. There is no place or entity yet available or proven
that is without or devoid of absolute energy, however there
are places where matter is not there, but no time is proven
when matter was not there.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Place (sthaan): - All pervasive Omnipotence or Space
because every single entity is included in the Omnipotence.
Constitution and evolution stage of matter determines its
quantity and form.
Entire material order is in solid, liquid or gaseous states
in elemental, compound, or mixture forms.
Elemental form (tatvik): - Constitution of atomic group of
same kind is known as elemental form.
Mixture form (mishran): - A constitution made up of a
group of atoms or molecules of different element types
from which their basic elements could be obtained through
physical or chemical processes.
Compound form (yaugik): - Compounds are formed when
two or more kind of entities combine in definite
proportions while leaving their respective conducts, start
expressing another kind of conduct.
Compounds are with both physical and chemical
constitutions, while mixtures have only physical
The number of particles in the nucleus and orbits
of atoms determines their type, state and
Air (vayu): - The continuous wave motion of a quantity of
liquid and heat.
Union (yog): - Meeting is known as union. Union
is of two kinds. (1) Identical, (2) Cohabitation.
Identical union (ekya yog): - Meeting of entities of same
kind is known as identical union.
Cohabitation union (sahvas-yog): - The meeting after
which separation is possible, is known as cohabitation
The impetuses of advancement obtained upon
cohabitation union are known as inspiration and the
impetuses contrary to this are known as counter revolution
or regression. Activity contrary to innateness or
helplessness towards problem is also known as counter
Impetus (samveg): - The speed attained from union itself
Innateness (dharana): - That, from which separation of
four planes of existence is according to their respective
states.
Problem (samasya): - Not having the understanding of
any event or activity itself is problem, or not understanding
Resolution (samadhan): - Having the understanding of
the underlying law of any event or activity itself is
is resolution.
Higher value (guru-mulyan):- Long lasting constitution
or unchangingness is higher value.
Cohabitation itself gives rise to inspiration and
realization. Its contrary, helplessness is appraised
as counter revolution.
advancement, provocative cohabitation results in
or long lasting constitution or unchangingness
(continuity).
transforming into lower value or problem.
Cohabitation itself is the root cause of Cosmic
order. Cohabitation is an expression in
coexistence. Coexistence is eternal presence and
eternally in effect.
In the world, or in the infinite world, there is not a unit
which is not moving towards advancement or
deterioration, because there is no unit without motion.
Therefore, for the infinite world there are only two
directions of motion.
Advancement (unnati): - Advancing towards higher value
or resolution itself is advancement.
Chapter-3
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Quantities of matter combine through methods of mixture
(wave motion) and compound to give rise to entire fluids
and sub-fluids.
Material order is classified into four kinds: 1. Soil,
Soil is with distinction of fertile and infertile.
Fertile (urvara): - Soil with potential of multiplying one
seed into many is known as fertile and soil of opposite
nature is known as infertile.
Classification of stones is with distinction of hard
and un-hard.
Hard (kathor): - Stones that can bear more weight are
known as hard.
Un-hard (akathor):- Stones that can bear less weight are
known as un-hard.
Classification of gems is with distinction of rayemitting and ray-absorbing.
Ray (kiran): - Reflection of a heated object on an opaque
object itself is ray. The fire emitted from a unit is known
as heat.
Ray emitting (kiran shravi): - The gems that have emission
from effect of ray are known as ray emitting and the gems
that absorb are known as ray absorbing.
Radiation and ray are with distinction of (penetration
ability into) opaque and transparent objects.
Radiation (vikiran): - The emission activity from any unit
as effect of inversion of heat is known as radiation.
Illumination (rashmi): - The activity of reflection,
secondary-reflection and tertiary-reflection of light from
heated object is known as illumination.
around it) is known as light.
Radiation and rays are engaged in nurturing or exploiting
activity depending on their way of use. Nurturing has
become evident through natural way. The exploitation has
been proven through radiation based experiments
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Composed mass of matter that has Space all around it, is
known as planetary body.
Every planet is in the state of zero-attraction in
Space. Every such object or planetary body is in a
position according to its motion pattern in Space.
Units in positive-attraction state get attracted to other units
and units in negative-attraction state attract other units
Weight is from attraction; attraction is from
mutuality; mutuality is from bigness and
smallness; bigness and smallness is from
formation and relative energy; constitution and
relative energy is from continuous activity;
continuous activity
is from matter; and
on good-use or misuse of relative energy.
in absolute energy.
Every initiative gives rise to relative energy.
Absolute energy is always immanent to all for their
base initiative.
state, while excluding the pressure of environment, is
known as base initiative.
On any planet complete grandeur of Cosmic order is
possible only when it becomes fully enriched with all
required fluids, sub-fluids, and air. In this way, in this
unlimited Space there are countless planets in completely
evolved, half evolved, semi evolved and unevolved statuses
based on extent of their advancement. The fluids and subfluids are in the form of chemical activities and their
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Unevolved Cosmic order is of material order.
Entire soils, stones, gems and metals are counted
in unevolved Cosmic order. Semi-evolved Cosmic order is
of pranic order. Entire vegetation is included in semievolved Cosmic order. Half-evolved Cosmic order is of
animal order. Apart from humankind, other living-beings
born off eggs and born off bodies are counted in animal
order. The formation of body has completely evolved in
knowledge order. It is necessary to be clear that the semi
evolved Cosmic order enfolds unevolved Cosmic order; half
Cosmic orders; and completely evolved Cosmic order
enfolds half evolved, semi evolved and unevolved Cosmic
As a result, a higher Cosmic order assimilates the
characteristics, innate-nature and religion of lower Cosmic
Characteristics (guna): - Relative forces are known as
characteristics, which are recognized to be as attractive,
repulsive and centered. Characteristics itself is the effect.
Innate-nature (svabhav): - Essence (purpose of being in
existence) itself is innate-nature.
Religion (dharma): - Innateness of an evolution stage itself
is its religion.
The above classification of Cosmic order is from distinction
in constitution of koshas.
Kosha: - The specific component which performs definite
activity with intent and purpose. The aspect responsible
for tendency is kosha.
inspiration means being enriched with energy, strength
and magnetism. The enrichment with inspiration itself is
pran-maya kosha. It is due to this inspiration-enrichment
the atomic-particles recognize each other and are
manifested in the form of atom being restrained in definite
distances from one-another. This tendency in atom itself
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Countless formations are manifested with distinct
material world. Anand-maya kosha and vigyanmaya kosha get evidenced and manifested in the
conscious world.
Anna-maya kosha: - The component that imbibes or
Pran-maya kosha: - The component that accepts or rejects
Mano-maya kosha: - The component that makes choices
Anand-maya kosha: - The component that
expresses happiness or misery is known as anand-maya
Vigyan-maya kosha: - The component that
imbibes essential knowledge is known as vigyan-maya
The four evolution stages of Cosmic order have their own
specialities and these specialities are related with form,
characteristics, innate-nature and religion.
Form (roop): - The form in all four evolution stages in
Cosmic order is with distinctions in their shape, area and
Characteristics (guna): - Characteristics are with
distinction of attraction, repulsion, or centeredness in the
Attraction characteristics (sam): - The characteristics that
help formation activity is known as attraction.
Repulsion characteristics (visham): - The characteristics
that helps dissolution activity is known as repulsion.
Centeredness characteristics (madhyasth): - The
characteristics that help in permanence (continuity of
being) is known as centeredness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
These three formation, dissolution and permanence
(continuity of being) activities are energized.
Innate-nature (svabhav): - Innate-nature of material order
is integration-disintegration activities and their continuity.
Innate-nature of pranic order is continuity of lifeenhancing and life-debilitating activities.
Innate-nature of animal order is cruel-uncruel.
Innate-nature of knowledge order is steadfastness, courage
and generosity, kindness, graciousness and compassion.
Religion (dharma): - Religion in material order is to exist.
Religion in pranic order is to grow along with existing.
growing and existing.
wanting-to-be-alive, growing and existing.
It has been clarified above that higher Cosmic order enfolds
(includes characteristics, innate-nature and religion of)
lower Cosmic order.
The distinctions in evolution stages are due to distinctions
in expression of koshas.
Material order expresses anna-maya kosha and pranmaya kosha. The activities of these two koshas are found
in atom which is the basic form of material order. Every
atom is continuously active; therefore it has the component
which receives inspiration. Along with this, atom is not
without advancement and deterioration which is result of
imbibing or expulsion activity only. Therefore material
order is proven to have anna-maya kosha also. It is only
the activities of anna-maya kosha also take place.
Therefore inseparable relationship of anna-maya kosha
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Pranic order has expression of three koshas and these are
kosha. The speciality of vegetations in comparison with
material order is their activity of choice, which is the
function of mano-maya kosha. This becomes clear from
observing that different vegetations planted on the same
soil grow by choosing nutrients and extracts according to
their respective needs.
Animal order and knowledge order in delusion express
Development of anand-maya kosha itself is the cause of
conscious-behaviour and due to that animal order has
expression of happiness and misery. It is for this reason
four sense-objects (food, sleep, fear and coitus).
An awakened human being expresses the five koshas. The
continuous activity and expression of these five koshas is
Activation of vigyan-maya kosha itself is the cause of
essential knowledge in the form of knowledge, wisdom and
science. It is only from wisdom and science that the
understanding of cause of misery and its eradication
develops. It is only from eradication of misery that
realization in happiness, peace, contentment and bliss is
Entire material order while being continuously busy in
integration followed by disintegration and disintegration
chemical transformations.
Entire units of pranic order, along with having all activities
of material order, express vitality and unvitality, involved
in ascension or descencion activities with innate-nature
as life-enhancing or life-debilitating.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-3
Life-enhancing (saarak): - The vegetation that nourishes
pranic-activity is known as life-enhancing.
Life-debilitating (maarak): - The vegetation that dessicates
pranic-activity is known as life-debilitating.
The body formations of entire animal order have all
activities of material order and pranic order into their fold.
These are evident in the form of growth (birth,
maturation), permanence (living according to specie) and
dissolution (death) stages in animals. Jeevan in animal
order is attached to sense-objects of food, sleep, fear and
coitus. Innate-nature of animal order is cruel-uncruel.
three evolution stages - have the opportunity of studying
and practicing knowledge, wisdom and science through
behaviour with motives of wealth, progeny and fame, by
completeness and incompleteness itself is the basis of
perspective of humanness or inhumanness.
Steadfastness (dheerta) : - Commitment and perseverance
towards justice itself is steadfastness.
and material forces for getting justice for others.
own means i.e. body, mind and wealth for others by way
of realizing use and good-use.
In the course of studying and practicing knowledge,
wisdom and science human beings are in the statuses of
There are countless activities in the Cosmic order
and entire Cosmic order is saturated in the all
As a result of being inspired entire matter is continuously
engaged in effort. Without effort, advancement and
deterioration is not possible in activities and their results.
Therefore:-
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Effortlessness or Realization in coexistence.
Effort (shram): - Effort is to attain higher state of being
than present. These states of being are in the course of
evolution, which are in the form of material entities.
Progress (constitutional-completeness) is studiable as
undestandable and realizable in awakening progression
evident in human behaviour as tradition.
order is for attaining the destination of effortlessness and
its continuity.
Chapter-3
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Existential purpose of Human being
Chapter-4
Only for effortlessness, human beings on this
Earth are busy in endeavours and experiments of
knowing and recognizing their own significance.
More than one human being coming together is
known as family, community, or undivided
society. Undivided society is achieved by way of
universal orderliness in awakened human
tradition.
A single human being can not accomplish any program,
behaviour, or production. Human being is the most
evolved unit on this Earth. More evolved unit than human
being is not evident on this Earth. Human being proves to
be most evolved unit, because: He is capable of making use, good-use, exploitation and
nourishment of Cosmic order other than humankind.
Only human being is the knower of characteristics, innatenature and religion found in humankind and Cosmic order
other than humankind.
Human being is found to be having innate-nature,
behaviour and understanding which are not found in
Cosmic order other than humankind.
Social obligations give rise to identification of
needs; identification of needs gives rise to
experiementation and production activities;
experimentation and production activities give
rise to wealth generation; wealth generation gives
rise to use, good-use and purposefulness of
wealth; use, good-use and purposefulness of
wealth gives rise to behavioural harmony;
behavioural harmony gives rise to humanness and
humanness gives rise to social harmony - which is
achieved in the form of undivided society.
Undivided-ness (akhandta):- Existential purpose of
human being in essence and expansion of undividedness
and universality.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Social harmony (samajikta):- To fulfill duties and
responsibilities in relationships and associations among
human beings itself is social harmony.
Needs (avashyakta): - Acute desire for appropriate means
This acute desire gets manifested in the form of
nourishment and protection of body and societal-progress.
Appropriate means (samuchit sadhan): - The means that
are necessary for experimentation and production
activities needed for realization of resolution and
prosperity. These are the objects offered and devoted for
bodily-nourishment, bodily-protection and societalprogress.
Experimentation (prayog): - The endeavour until success
for instilling utility value and art value on natural
abundance through hard-work (physical labor) to fulfill
Production (utpadan): - The process of deploying hardwork (physical labor) for normalising an experiment is
known as production, wherein the wish for surplus remains
to be there.
Wealth generation (dhan-uparjan): - The measure of
utility and art achieved from deploying hard-work
(physical labor) of human being on natural abundance is
The activities of collecting such wealth is known as wealth
generation. This is a functional definition of wealth
Use (upyog): - Deployment of wealth towards production
and serving others (seva) is known as use.
Production(utpadan) : - Production has two distinctions
Common aspiration (samanya-akanksha): - The program
of accomplishing food, shelter and utilities is known as
common aspiration.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Higher aspiration (mahattva-akanksha): - The program
of accomplishing transportation and tele-communication
is known as higher aspiration.
Good-use (sadupyog): - Deployment of means in the form
Purposefulness (prayojan) : - Deploying material and
conscious means in the form of body, mind and wealth
towards undivided society and universal orderliness with
complete awakening.
Behavioural harmony (vyavharikta): - Conduct of
humanness is known as behavioural harmony.
The study of social harmony is possible only on the
tendency and perspective only and social order
is meant for its conservation.
Study based on above leads to categorization of
tendencies of humankind into three:(1) inhumanness, (2) humanness, (3) superhumanness.
The social order for conserving, strengthening and
encouraging inhuman nature, pursuits and perspectives
is known as inhuman social order or animal-like social
wretchedness and cruelness only is the inhuman nature.
Inhuman pursuits (amanviya vishaya): - Food, sleep, fear
and coitus only are the inhuman pursuits.
Inhuman perspective (amanviya drishti): - Pleasantunpleasant, healthy-unhealthy and profit-loss only are the
inhuman perspectives.
Pleasant (priya): - The activity of anticipating sensorycontentment is known as pleasant.
Healthy (hita): - The activity of enhancing bodily health
and nourishment is known as healthy.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Profit (labh): - The activity of getting more material than
taking higher value in exchange for a lower value itself is
Cunningness (heenta): - Betrayal itself is cunningness.
Betrayal (vishwas-ghat): - The conduct of someone
contrary to what was expected from him itself is known as
Deceit (chhal): - After betraying trust, its not getting
recognized is known as deceit.
Cheating (kapat): - After betraying trust, its getting
exposed is known as cheating.
assurance is known as fraud.
Charlatanism (pakhand): - Overtly betraying trust is
known as charlatanism.
Wretchedness (deenta): - The tendency of seeking refuge
wretchedness.
Wretchedness is due to poverty or lack of potential.
Poverty (abhav): - Desire of consuming and using more
than production is poverty. The causes of poverty are
lack of potential (akshamta): - Not being able to perform
conscious and physical functions as desired itself is lack of
potential. The causes of lack of potential are un-awakening
(delusion) and disease.
Cruelness (kroorta): - Scheming to forcefully remove other
Crime and vengeance are the two distinctions of cruelness.
Criminal cruelness is in the form of violence and vengeant
cruelness is expressed in the form of counter-violence.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
The order that conserves, strengthens and
perspective is humane-orderliness.
courage and generosity, kindness, graciousness and
compassion itself is humane nature.
Humane pursuits (manveeya vishaya): - Motives of
progeny, wealth and fame alone are humane pursuits.
Humane perspective (manveeya drishti): - Justiceinjustice, religious-irreligious and truth-untruth are the
humane perspective.
Justice (nyaya): - The social order with ethics of
conserving humanness itself is justice.
The collective and individual endeavours that
provide adequate opportunities and means for
awakening of super-humanly nature, pursuits and
perspective are known as superhumanly social
order. Undivided society, family rooted selforganizing orderliness and tradition with
acceptance of human being as evidence of truth is
a superhumanly social order.
graciousness and compassion itself is superhumanly
Kindness (daya): - When receptivity is there but
understanding is not established in tradition, then
activities of establishment of understanding into tradition
is known as kindness.
established in tradition, but receptivity according to that
as humane worldview is not there, in that state thoughts
and activities of instilling such receptivity are known as
Compassion (karuna): - Those who neither have
receptivity and nor is the understanding established in
tradition, in that state thoughts for making these available
itself is known as compassion.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Superhumanly tendency (ati-manviya pravritti): - Truth
(absolute truth in the form of coexistence).
Superhumanly-perspective (ati-manviya drishti): - Only
Human associations succeed or fail depending on
whether their aim is with justice or injustice and
as a result there is progress or decline in social
Association (sampark): - The mutualities in which the
meetings are known as associations.
Human-relationships are not for mundane aims (due to
animal consciousness). Human relationships are for great
aims (i.e. to evidence evolved consciousness as human
consciousness, godly consciousness and divine
consciousness) and fulfilling these itself is awakening.
Relationship (sambandh): - Human mutualities in which
the expectations from each other remain pre-determined
for realization of completeness, such meetings are known
as relationships.
Fulfillment of social obligations is from
dutifulness and commitment whereby society
evolves in the form of undividedness and
universality otherwise it deteriorates.
Dutifulness (kartavya): - The activities of realizing values
and doing work and behaviour that is worthy by way of
humanness itself is dutifulness.
Commitment (nishtha): - Continuity of fulfilling duties
and responsibilities itself is commitment.
Resolution and prosperity are necessary for fulfilling
social-obligations. Human being has conscious-means
(resolution) and material-means (prosperity) for this.
Means (sadhan): - The necessary understanding and
receptivity in aspirant or required for achieving the aim
are known as means, which would be expected in every
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Conscious means (bauddhik sadhan): - The conscious
means are in the form of potential, ability and receptivity
Material means (bhautik sadhan): - The material means
are in the form of objects of common aspiration and higher
aspiration obtained through production.
The effort, endeavour and occupation (production activity)
for deploying the means described above, must include
the desire to do so.
One who moves with acute desire for achieving
something is not content until he achieves it.
The desire of deploying conscious and material means is
for fulfilling some or the other need. This need is selfcentered, others-centered, or holistic.
Self-centered (svarth): - The plan of deploying means of
living for limited and narrow ends is known as self-centered
- which remains limited to only one human being or one
family. The thoughts and behaviour for sensory-comforts
of one individual or one family is self-centered.
Others-centered (pararth): - Thoughts and behaviour that
give priority in deploying means of living for comforts of
others are known as others-centered.
Holistic (paramarth): - The thoughts and behaviour that
accomplish universal-good along with resolution, and
which resolve problems and which have only affection in
the relationships, the deployment of means of living for
making this universally available are known as holistic.
The above law itself will become applicable for numerous
and humanness will get established.
Means of living are only three: - mind (jeevan), body and
wealth.
Experimentation and endeavours of conscious
kind lead to resolution in thoughts.
lead to accomplishing material prosperity.
Resolved thoughts and material prosperity are
helpful for development of social harmony.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
For material prosperity, the use and good-use of natural
abundance is indispensable. Minerals, vegetations and
birds-animals are natural abundance.
The deployment of means of living in the form of hardwork (physical labor) is necessary for use and good-use
of natural abundance.
The development of social harmony is from deployment
humanness and super-humanness.
At the root of constitution of inhuman
communities is the fear of cruelness of humans
in delusion and mighty beasts.
In the same way, at the root of constitution of humane
communities is the aim of getting liberated from the fear
of Nature, fear of beasts and fear of inhumanness in human
Entire endeavours and experimentations by human beings
are only for attaining contentment or happiness.
The contentments or happiness are either sensual (from
sense-organs), conscious (resolution in thoughts), values
rooted (justice), or rooted in existential purpose (as
natural-evidence of awakening).
All contentments from sense-organs (hearing, touch, sight,
taste and smell) through acts of food, sleep, fear and coitus
are sensual, which are temporary in nature.
The contentment attained from motives of wealth, progeny
and fame is known as conscious contentment, which are
Living for human-purpose (resolution, prosperity,
peace, contentment and bliss) alone is evidence of purposerooted living, which alone is effortlessness or continuity
of happiness.
Motive of wealth (vitteshna): - The wish for obtaining
wealth for good-use, with perspective of justice itself is
motive of wealth.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Motive of progeny (putteshna): - The wish for begetting
children for having family and social order itself is motive
of progeny.
Motive of fame (lokeshna): - The wish for fame with
perspectives of justice and religion towards realization of
undivided society itself is motive of fame.
Resolution (samadhan): - Complete fulfillment of how and
why (as having answers) itself is resolution.
Effortlessness (vishram): - That which has no effort and
from which there is no effort, that realization itself is
The body-part which can be moved willfully is known as
sense-organ, the part of jeevan that accepts and instills
bodh (understanding) is known as buddhi, the
inseparable-part of jeevan that becomes realized in
coexistence is known as atma and the Omnipotence
foundation of all atmas is known as Spirituality and
Need and usefulness is determined based on the
distinctions in above mentioned four contentment-causing
or happiness-causing purposes.
Sensory-contentment proves to be momentary,
conscious-contentment proves to be long-lasting
and contentment of realization (purpose rooted)
proves to be eternal or ever-lasting.
Pleasant-unpleasant perspective is relative to
sense-objects; healthy-unhealthy perspective is
relative to body; profit-loss perspective is relative
to physical-objects and comforts; justice-injustice
perspective is relative to human behaviour;
religious-irreligious perspective is relative to
resolution; and truth-untruth perspective
becomes clear relative to realization in
There is momentary satisfaction upon getting a pleasant
object. The sense-organs are not satisfied upon getting an
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
When heart becomes content there is health or there is
improvement in health. When heart remains uncontent
there is unhealthiness or there is no improvement in
health.
Sensory contentment is a temporary reaction.
Contentment (trupti): - The activity devoid of disturbances
condition is maintained by balance in its activity and pulse.
is disturbance.
(physical health) implies sensory contentment.
Getting higher value in exchange of lower value is
known as profit.
Higher value is offered in exchange of lower value
in three situations: - (1) Due to helplessness,
(2) Due to own desire, (3) Due to ignorance.
Entire human behaviour is evidenced totally in six
healthy-unhealthy, (3) profit-loss, (4) justiceinjustice, (5) religious-irreligious, (6) truthuntruth.
Behaviour of human beings with inhumanness is in the
refuge of only three perspectives - pleasant-unpleasant,
healthy-unhealthy and profit-loss.
The necessary behaviour for human being is
following the laws of justice and necessarythoughts for human being is following the laws of
Following the laws in contradiction with above essence is
unnecessary behaviour and thoughts for human being.
Accordingly, entire animalkind (i.e. animals, birds etc) are
instinctual and communal beings and all human beings
are judicious and social beings.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Commonly the communality in animals becomes apparent
in their state of fear. We never see animals coming together
to study, do production, or willfully participate in
awakened human beings is living with resolution,
prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence.
four pursuits are found to be there, while awakened human
beings commonly have progeny-motive, wealth-motive
and fame-motive, along with evidences of effortlessness
in the form of resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and
Effortlessness itself is eradication of misery and
liberation from delusion itself is salvation.
The ultimate purpose of Cosmic order is
effortlessness and its evidence is awakened
human tradition only. Therefore every human
being in delusion also thirsts for effortlessness.
Resolution itself is effortlessness. This itself is allround resolution.
The activities of the four evolution stages and the four
planes for their respective purposes itself is whole Cosmic
The knowledge that has become manifested in
animal-kind is known as common-knowledge. The
knowledge that gets evidenced by human being
upon awakening is in two categories: - (1) Wisdom
based on knowledge; (2) Science based on
knowledge.
It is due to being endowed with wisdom and
science that a human being has recognized
effortlessness and done experimentation, which
is both aim and outcome of activities of Cosmic
Chapter-4
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
A human being in delusion alone is free at the time
of performing actions and is bound at the time of
experiencing results of his actions, while animals
are bound both while performing actions and
while experiencing results of their actions. An
awakened human being is free while performing
actions and is free also while experiencing results
of his actions.
As a result of having freedom at the time of
performing actions, a human being has as much
scope for progress as he has the scope for
deterioration. As a result, human being has
endeavoured to attain effortlessness through
pursuing sense-objects, achieving humanemotives (for wealth, progeny and fame) and
pursuing salvation. Salvation means all-round
resolution, which alone is liberation from
delusion. Realization of salvation itself is
It has been described earlier that characteristics, innatenature and religions of less-evolved Cosmic order remain
human being by birth has capability of doing wrong and
opportunity and means of doing right. Since every human
being did not inherit human consciousness from tradition,
until year 2000 humankind lived in animal consciousness
For example, suppose a teacher teaches mathematics in a
school. The teacher teaches the correct thing only and he
addresses all disciples in the same way. Despite this some
disciples make mistakes. This proves that these disciples
had tendency for making mistakes due to delusion. Along
with this it also proves that with environment of
which was making mistakes earlier, becomes able to do
correctly.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
to every human being in the form of opportunity and need,
which is evident in the form of having expectation for doing
right even while living in animal consciousness.
Humankind has performed experimentation and
production activities only to fulfill its needs of
living. The result of experimentation and
production itself is wealth generation.
Every human being desires protection and good-use of
means of living that are available to him.
own custom for good-use and protection of means
of living available to him, which gave rise to
ideological differences. As a result, humankind
explored for universal and principled orderliness
from which one fundamental-principle surfaced,
which is as follows: -
Principle itself is existential orderliness;
existential orderliness itself is law; law itself is
wisdom and science; wisdom and science itself is
knowledge; and knowledge itself is principle.
Principle (siddhant): - Law, procedure and
accomplishment when formulated into words, it is called
as principle. Procedure is in the form of work and
behaviour which gets results.
Law (niyam): - The way by which activity is conservaed
and disciplined itself is law.
It is for conservation of humanness that a human
being desires to study, experiment and follow
culture, civilization, norms and orderliness of
humanness, since these four are mutually
complementary.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Science and wisdom based thoughts behaviour,
study, teaching, production, use, good-use,
distribution, propagation, norms and orderliness
is the whole program for conservation of
humanness experienced by human being.
Thought (vichar): - Definite reasoning (distinction) from
evaluation-activity of vritti based on perspectives of
pleasant-unpleasant, healthy-unhealthy, profit-loss,
justice-injustice, religious-irreligious and truth-untruth
itself is thought.
Study (adhyayan): - In the attestation of atma and
realization, the procedures and endeavours upon
understanding of meaning along with memorization itself
is study.
Teaching (adhyapan): - From realization rooted method,
in the attestation of atma, upon understanding and
direction-perception, with memorization, the procedure
worthy of making realities understandable are called
teaching.
Propagation (prachar) and Exhibition (pradarshan): Propagation is the use of language for addressing the public
efforts that combine art and language.
Norms (vidhi): - The lawful practices decided by one or
many individuals to provision the conservation of
undivided society and universal orderliness are known as
Orderliness (vyavastha): - Manifestation of tradition for
implementing the intent of norms (of a society) is known
as orderliness.
Fulfillment of social-obligations is not possible in
the absence of tradition based on understanding
of coexistence.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Understanding of coexistence achieves absence of
opposition; absence of opposition achieves
awakening; awakening achieves prosperity;
awakening and prosperity achieves resolution;
resolution achieves happiness; happiness achieves
affection; affection achieves trust; trust achieves
coexistence and evidencing realization in
coexistence itself is awakening.
Coexistence (sah-astitva): - Mutualities without
exploitation, hoarding and hatred and fulfillment of
relationships and associations with behaviour of generosity
affection and serving others itself is coexistence.
Absence of opposition (nirvirodh): - Conclusion,
commitment and practice towards justice and religion
itself is absence of opposition.
Prosperity (samriddhi): - Lacking the sense-of-lacking
itself is prosperity. Production in excess of definite-needs
itself is prosperity.
Happiness (sukha): - The result of behaviour of justice and
thoughts of religion itself is happiness.
Affection (sneha): - Absence of opposition in behaviour of
justice itself is affection. This is activity of mun which is
totally-affected from vritti.
Trust (vishwas): - The activities for meaningful-fulfillment
of obligations innate in awakened tradition itself is trust.
Serving (seva): - Serving is the tendency of being contented
by doing beneficence, also serving can be in expectation
of returns by helping or assisting.
Serving where beneficence is primary, satisfaction is from
doing beneficence. Serving where returns are primary,
only returns get assessed.
Beneficence (upkar): - Help and inspiration for prosperity
As written above, humankind has wished for good-use and
protection of means of living obtained from
experiementation and production.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Good-use and protection of means of living is possible
only on the basis of behaviour and thoughts of humanness.
It is to achieve this, (awakened) human beings determine
orderliness based on wisdom and science.
All human traditions in delusion exhibit two kinds of
orderliness: - (1) Religious-order (2) Political-order or
Mutual complementariness of both these orders
(religious order and political order) is absolutely
necessary for conservation of social harmony.
In awakened human tradition, good-use and
protection of available means of living in every
family gets manifested in the form of ethics of
human-religion and ethics of human-state
respectively. This itself is the foundation of
undivided society and universal orderliness.
In this way, domains of religious-order and political-order
gets very clearly demarcated. When these orders, instead
of being complementary to the other, start exploiting each
social-imbalance arises and inhuman thoughts and
behaviour get strengthened. As a result, the need for
humanness in the form of alternative arises.
Norms and orderliness aspects are for protection
of the means of living. Norms are observable in
conduct of human beings and orderliness is
observable in mutualities.
The utility of norms-aspect is in good-use of individual
and societal means of living which accomplishes mutualcontentment. Accordingly, the utility of orderliness is in
instilling the intent of norms in the form of awakened
tradition. The grandeur of norms-aspect is achieved in
awakened human tradition.
Entire Cosmic order is present with distinction of
material and conscious.
In the absence of conscious aspect (jeevan) it is not possible
for body to perform any function. Human being is an
evolved unit of the conscious world.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Consciousness is Omnipresence. Consciousness
is permeating and transparent and it is a nonactivity (devoid of pulse or pressure).
Consciousness does not prove to be a unit due to
its being all pervasive. Consciousness does not
prove to be the root cause of Cosmic order.
Coexistence alone is the root cause of Cosmic
order. The constitutions are only in nature
saturated in consciousness. This absolute energy
is in, from and for human being in the form of
evolved-consciousness.
Consciousness itself is the root cause of entire material and
conscious entities being energized. As a result,
continuously active nature evolves with effort, motion and
constitution and evidences the stage of evolution in the
form of living and non-living world. Therefore it becomes
clear that material world has the seed of living and nonliving world in it.
Chapter-4
Along with this it also becomes clear that human being as combined expression of body and jeevan - has the seed
become awakened. Awakening itself is the evidence of
Entire units of Cosmic order are saturated in consciousness
according to their receptivity, this itself is the effect . The
result of this effect is the ceaseless-initiative of units. This
ceaseless-initiative itself is at the root of activities of nature
and this ceaseless activity itself in the form of effort, motion
and constitution attains the potential, ability and
receptivity to irreversibly transition in the form of
conscious nature. The fundamental form of conscious
A human being is found to have both conscious aspect and
material aspect expressed in his behaviour and all functions
performed through body have both material and conscious
activities simultaneously.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Material aspect means body and production activities
thoughts, desires, understanding and ahuthenticity which
are the activities related with knowledge, wisdom and
Want (asha): - The anticipation from a refuge is known as
want. The wants are found to be either from the refuge of
body or from the refuge of realization.
Thought (vichar): - The acceptances upon reasoning
(recognizing the distinctions) for the purpose of
Desire (ichchha) : - The activity that receives and makes
the picture of shape, kind, purpose and possibility and
which devotes characteristics into motion is known as
desire. The conscious-forces become evident in the form
of characteristics, innate-nature and religion (resolution).
Conviction (ritambhara): - The conscious-activity that
gives continuity to an acceptance achieved holisitically is
known as conviction.
In the course of knowing and recognizing his own
significance in Cosmic order, human being has
endeavoured studying constitutional-completeness,
functional-completeness and conduct-completeness in the
In the course of above study it became known that
the fundamental unit is material atom only, which
Constitution (gathan): - Constitution is the procedure
which gives continuity to definite activity, disciplined and
bounded by absolute-law, of recognizing-fulfilling among
the constituting particles (in atom).
Conduct (acharan): - The activity by which essence
(purpose in existence) of a reality gets evaluated is known
as conduct. Conduct itself is law.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Material (jad): - The unit without any thought-aspect,
whose span of function is limited to its length, width and
height.
Conscious (chaitanya): - The unit whose span of function
is more than its length, width and height and whose
thought-aspect is active, such unit is known as conscious.
As soon as this atom attains such special activeness
The material and conscious units have
commonness in their constitution-principle.
Realization in atma; understanding, acceptance
and inundation in buddhi; ecstasy in chitta;
enthusiasm in vritti; and curiosity in mun are the
tendencies for realization of awakening.
Realization (anubhuti): - The understanding,
manifestation, expression and constitution obtained from
existential-progression itself is realization.
Inundation (aplavan): - The effect of non-delusion is
known as inundation. Buddhi alone gets inundated upon
ecstasy. Chitta alone becomes ecstatic upon having
Enthusiasm (utsah): - The courage for Advancement itself
is known as enthusiasm, which happens in vritti.
Curiosity (kautuhal): - The activity of realization upon
knowing the unknown and attaining the unattained is
known as curiosity, which happens in mun.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
In every atom the subatomic-particles are found to be
positioned in center and in orbits. First orbit has one or
more than one subatomic-particle and in the same way
second, third and fourth etc orbits are found to be having
one or more subatomic-particles continuously revolving
around the nucleus. Space is there all around every atom
and around all subatomic-particles constituting the atom.
There is no place and object that is without or free of Space.
The nucleus of conscious unit (constitutionally complete
atom) is known as atma, the particles in first orbit are
known as buddhi, the particles in second orbit are known
as chitta, particles in third orbit are known as vritti and
fourth are known as mun.
Cosmic order is evident as four evolution stages on this
evolution stages the nucleus of atoms is the centering
activity, because it is unaffected from attraction or
repulsion.
The constituting atoms have continuous activity of effort,
motion and constitution. The experience of effortlessness
is found to be there in conscious unit (jeevan), which itself
is the stage of awakening.
Particles in last orbit of all elements in material
order remain continuously active with effort, as
advancement activity.
Friction (kshobh): - The degradation that takes place in
converting potential and ability into effort is known as
friction.
Advancement (agreshan): - The receptivity or balance that
effort is known as advancement.
The particles in last and penultimate orbits of
atoms remain continuously active with effort in
bonding activities and thereby these have
advancement activity for materializing more
evolved formation of pranic order.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
The bodies in animal order are composed of pranic
cells only and jeevan in animal order is with
tendency of functioning with specie-conformance.
The conscious atom (jeevan) has particles in
fourth, third and partially in second orbits have
advancement activity for still better expression.
The bodies in knowledge order too are composed
of pranic cells and jeevan in awakening
progression stage expresses its four and a half
orbits from reference of body.
Upon awakening, jeevan realizes all ten activities
from realization rooted method. The human body
in human tradition is capable of realizing all the
ten activities of jeevan.
In knowledge order the aim of ideal-living
(awakened living) is to be aligned with reality,
attuned with reality, being with reality and clearly
seeing the reality. The ideal-living happens in
receptivity with particular realities along with
their forms, characteristics and innate-natures.
Ideal (isht): - The reverence, trust and commitment
towards coexistence out of own desire with absolute
knowledge itself is the ideal.
Alignment with reality (tadatmaya), Attunement with
reality (tadroop): - Since awakening is the ultimate ideal attunement and alignment with the understanding of
realization is natural for jeevan. Realization in coexistence
itself is the way of becoming aligned and attuned with
reality.
This is because law, restraint, balance, justice, religion and
truth get manifested as a result of realization.
Being-with-reality (tat-sannidhya): - The meaning of being
with reality is to be with happiness, peace, contentment
and bliss.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Clearly seeing the reality (tadavlokan): - Being established
in seer-status in coexistence itself is the activity of clearly
seeing the reality. The seer of coexistence is awakenedjeevan only.
The aim of entire activities of a unit of knowledge
order is accomplishment of untethered behaviour
(living without premises). Untetheredness means
liberation from delusion and awakening in the
form of evidence.
Meaning of tetheredness (sabeejan): - Believing body to
constitutionally complete atom and is the seer of physicalchemical world.
Untethered behaviour (living without premises)
takes place in the state of liberation from delusion.
Untethered behaviour (living without premises)
has liberation from inhumanness, nurturing of
humanness and evidence of super-humanness.
laws of work and behaviour alone is untetheredthought (premiseless thought) or unattachedthought and behaviour thereby alone is
untethered behaviour. This alone is liberation
Unattached thinking itself is natural thought
process of a liberated self or divya manav, because
entire attachment is delusion only.
Liberated self or the human being who has become
liberated from animal consciousness and delusion
or the human being who is realized in coexistence
doesnot suffer from recollection of past or
apprehension about future and he has no
resistance with present.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Liberation from delusion or Awakening itself is the
centeredness status (that has permanence) for
humankind. The achievement of centeredness
status has liberation from friction of attraction
and repulsion activities. Jeevan has provision for
becoming content from ways of use, good-use and
purposefulness. An awakened jeevan is found to
be balanced and contented only from the way of
centeredness and understanding of realization in
Until in awakening progression stage, all human beings
recognize growth in appearance, physical strength, wealth
significance and grandeur becomes primary and material
aspect becomes secondary and the attraction, repulsion
and centeredness activities of material aspects of living
become restrained with understanding.
Friction itself is misery or conflict.
The eradication of friction or problem or misery
needs evidence of awakening in living.
The want-to-be-alive incorporates the growthstage (birth and maturation), matured-stage and
dissolution-stage (growing old and death). Among
these, the matured-stage is the most pleasant, but
that stage is not permanent. Due to delusion,
human being tries to achieve permanence of
physical strength, appearance, social rank and
wealth in matured-stage, which becomes
unsuccessful because these aspects donot have the
characteristics of permanence and there is no
stability of accomplishments of these aspects.
the form of awakened tradition only.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Structural constitution is known as form, effect is
known as characteristics, reality is known as
substance and the word used for indicating any
Form and characteristics are relative and
temporal aspects.
Temporal aspect (samyik tathya): - The activity or set of
activities whose transformation is inevitable is known as
temporal aspect.
Entire elements are continuously active being
saturated in the absolute.
At the root of language there is feeling; at the root
of feeling there is essence; at the root of essence
there is appraisal of value (by human being); at
the root of appraisal there is holistic view
(darshan); at the root of holistic view (darshan)
there is observer (human being); at the root of
observer there is potential, ability and receptivity
of the observer; at the root of potential, ability and
receptivity there is the sense, intuition, perception
and realization of truth; at the root of sense,
intuition, perception and realization is the
language. All this is contemplation activity, which
is successful or unsuccessful based on awakening
of the observer.
The material order and pranic order of nature is
without brain, while animal order and knowledge
order of nature is with brain.
Brain (medhas): - Respiring part of body that has the
potential, ability and receptivity for receiving signals of a
which is commonly in the head of human being.
The transmission of wants, thoughts, desires,
conviction and realization from jeevan-cloud
happens on brain itself and thereby sensoryfunction and motor-function get evidenced in
every human body, which get manifested in human
tradition.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Jeevan-cloud (punj): - The shape that is there as limits of
Transmission (prasaran): - The pulse generated from the
signals of wants thoughts desires conviction and realization
on brain and neuro-system is known as transmission, from
which a response is expected.
All aspirations of happiness are with distinctions
of acceptance, rejection, contentment, hoarding
and generosity.
Acceptance (grihan): - Assessment of usefulness is known
as acceptance.
Rejection (visarjan): - Assessment of uselessness is known
as rejection.
Contentment (nigraha): - Tendency in self-restraint.
of taste; thoughts are manifested in the form of
expression; desires are manifested in the form of
experimentation and production activities; and
conviction is manifested in the form of strength
and commitment. These are characteristics and
innate-nature of activities expressed from mun,
are from mun, thoughts are from vritti, desires
are from chitta and conviction of realizationevidence is from buddhi.
Every conscious unit has a perspective. A material
atom does not have perspective until its progress
(constitutional-completeness) and becoming a
Chapter-4
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
The activities and procedures used to see
(understand) the obseravable reality by the
observer with perspective itself is holistic view
accomplishment of holistic view (darshan) is
understanding or knowledge. It is from this
determined, realized and expressed. It is from this
oneself and of entire existence. This alone is self
and mutuality.
The observer through holistic view (darshan) alone
receives signals of completeness-incompleteness, form characteristics- innate-nature -religion, union-disunion,
activities-procedures, results-outcomes and Advancementdeterioration.
The study of conscious unit is of jeevan - as
activities of mun, vritti, chitta, buddhi and atma.
Earlier the classification of inhumanness and superhumanness has been done by identifying distinctions in
their innate-nature and behaviour. Humankind is
evidenced in five categories, which are as follows: -
Inhuman human beings are in two categories: - (one)
Pashu manav exhibits living primarily with
wretchedness, cunningness and cruelness.
Rakshas manav exhibits living primarily with
cruelness, cunningness and wretchedness.
(three) Manav with humanness is in one category.
Super-humanly human beings are again in two categories:(four) dev manav and (five) divya manav.
The perspective, pursuits and innate-nature of a superhumanly human being are as follows: -
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
graciousness, generosity, kindness
of coexistence.
religion (primary) and truth.
Chapter-4
compassion, kindness and graciousness.
Among the human beings in the five categories described
above, the more awakened human beings behave with lessawakened through observing, examining and surveying.
Capability or Right (adhikar): - Guiding other according
From above mentioned way, it is only upon awakening the
awakened has the capability of inspiring unawakened and
study of awakening is only by way of realization.
Based on above deliberation itself, in this world suffering
from diversity in opinions every human being wants to
appraisal is not correct, in that state it is not possible to
one rupee is completely understood, there is no use of
further counting. Until one becomes able to appraise a
rupee from 1 to 99 paisa, one doesnot get the appraisalknowledge of its full worth.
significance) proves to be the first and foremost need for
a human being for his own advancement.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The study is only of actuality, reality and truth. It has now
become possible to study entire units enfolded in the
Omnipresence by way of classification. This classification
itself is studiable as four evolution stages and four planes.
The study of activities of Nature is provisioned in the form
of evolution, progress, awakening progression and
awakening. Along with this, the study of form,
characteristics, innate-nature and religion is necessary
which are evident in the four evolution stages and four
planes. The study of progress is absolutely necessary. The
progressed-units. The evidence of awakening progression
First stage is study Second stage is experminentation and
practice in work and behaviour. Third stage is realization
The study related with evolution and awakening is
living. All human beings have a thirst for understanding.
Chapter-4
The evidence of this receptivity in all human beings is that
this understanding can be imparted logically, by way of
study, as acceptance of realities of absolute truth,
subjective-truth and objective truth and as a result
realization is always close to human being. This itself is
the meaning of study.
From all the reasoning above the conclusion emerges that
manav with humanness can naturally be in the form of
has been appraised. Dev manav and divya manav are of
completeness in awakening. These two categories are
evidences of realization in awakened human tradition as.
In an awakened human tradition, humanness gets reflected
in work and behaviour and realization gets manifested as
family-rooted orderliness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
This is the most important need. In this way, from the
perspective of coexistence it is has become possible to
recognize and evaluate humanness in all aspect of human
behaviour and it has become possible to recognize and
evaluate evidences of realization in holistic orderliness.
The tendency of divya manav is coexistence in the form
of absolute truth.
The Omnipotence is present in the same way
everywhere.
The activities of material and conscious nature are eternally
there in all of existence. From this it is understood at the
root of every activity, the Omnipotence is present at every
place. Therefore there is possibility of there being many
Absolute energy is sensible in the same way at all
The Omnipotence gets understood at all places in
the same way.
On this earth, or anywhere else if human beings achieve
divine humanness, then all of them have same realization
and they all are sources of inspiration for an unawakened
human beings in the same way. On this basis, all human
beings everywhere can understand coexistence by way of
The choice and taste activities in mun, reasoning and
evaluation activities (based on perspectives of pleasantunpleasant, healthy-unhealthy and profit-loss) in vritti and
imaging activity in chitta continuously happens in a
deluded human being of knowledge order. These
(conscious) activities take place from the reference of body.
activities that happen in the purview of delusion.
of jeevan is fully active along with evidence of realization
in atma. As a result all conscious-activities of jeevan start
getting evidenced with realization rooted method.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
The potential for getting inspiration is there in
particles included every atom, because all
particles are saturated in the Omnipotence.
In knowledge order, human body is also composed
of pranic cells. Jeevan while keeping the body
alive, in return expects to realize sensations of
hearing, touching, sight, taste and smell as an
evidence of being alive.
The art-aspect and knowledge-aspect in these
tendencies are experienced in the form of taste
by conscious aspect through brain.
That which causes awakening of conscious aspect
(jeevan) is known as impression.
That which causes the formation of human body
is known as imprint or specie-conformance.
Impression (sanskar): - 1. The acceptances for
completeness only are impressions. This itself is the fate
of human being.
The resolution that is available to jeevan prior to its
manifestation, is known as impression.
The tendencies and understanding along with actions
towards realizing completeness are impressions.
Physical, verbal, or mental actions for completeness by way
of doing, getting-done or giving-consent are known as
Fate (prarabdh): - The extent to which one can know, one
cannot desire that much; the extent to which one can
desire, one cannot do that much; the extent to which one
can do, one cannot enjoy that much; the extent one could
not enjoy is fate. A constituting atom is with molecular
bondage and weight bondage. A jeevan atom has bondage
of wants. The evidence of constitutional-completeness
becomes clear in the form of its having independence.
There is forever eternal presence of three kind of activities
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
While recognizing their inter-relationships, the conscious
being separate from rest of the atoms is - jeevan is capable
of functioning in a larger span than its own length, width
and height. Every jeevan is continuously effortful for
accomplishments according to its wants through body only
and for this reason it is separate from molecule groups.
Chapter-4
The union of material and conscious: - The
progress in the form of conscious plane has taken
place only on the basis of evolution found in the
In the above context, the material atom alone irreversiblytransitions to conscious-status in the course of evolution
founf in material nature.
Conscious unit has the imprints. Conscious unit
wants further advancement. Every evolved unit
uses un-evolved unit by way of complementariness
for mutual advancement. Every unit of humankind
has to invert its forces, because the extroversion
of energies from a unit evidences manifestation
and inversion of forces evidences awakening. The
meaning of inversion is deriving conclusions upon
examining and scrutinizing and realizing them.
Imprint (adhyas): - The bodily-activities in conduciveness
of sensations with mental-acceptance are known as
Pranic order has units in the form of formations as
vegetations. These are composed of pranic cells. Pranic
order units are composed of material order only. The
formations in pranic order keep getting formed so that
the tradition of pranic cells continues. Definite endeavours
of formation eventually reach a definite-stage, which we
see in the form of trees and plants.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Now their seeding-stage is reached. The formation of seeds
happens in pranic order so that their existence is
formation method. Thereby seeds are capable of making
formations of the same kind again. This is known as seedconformance.
The reason for many vegetation species is differences in
their environmental-conditions and cumulative-activities
(manner of growth).
This proficiency of composing in pranic cells
results in bodies of pranic order till knowledge
order. All pranic cells are essentially of the same
kind and there are differences in the formation
methods. Along with this, number of formation
methods in animal order are more than the
number of formation methods in pranic order and
got manifested in body formation, those aspects
have become imbibed in formation methods in
pranic cells. Most evolved formation is brain in
human body. Only human body is equipped with
Specie has an important place in the context of body
is there with their own distinct character in pranic order,
animal order and knowledge order. While seeding-process
is principally common in all evolution stages, there are
variations are on the basis of formation method in pranic
cells. This is a spontaneous activity.
Human being in knowledge order alone is the seer of all
four evolution stages. The understanding obtained for
achieving uniformity and awakening in conscious-beings
(humans) itself is known as impression. This
with resolution and prosperity. The work and behaviour
takes place on the basis of understanding.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
This proves, conscious unit is a combined form of wants,
thoughts, desires, conviction and realization. The purpose
of this (awakened) expression is to have seed and evidence
of realization rooted wants, thoughts, desires, convictions
and realization in self. Until a human being becomes
liberated from his tendency of over-valuing material aspect,
he does not attain the potential, ability and receptivity for
becoming enriched with non-delusion. This is possible
only with awakening. Until one attains this potential,
ability and receptivity one cannot achieve restraint and
balance on material aspect and senses. The reason for
this is, while in delusion a human being spreads his wants,
thoughts and desires in anticipation of getting happiness
from body (sensory activities). In this way, a human being
performs acts of delusion. With awakening it becomes
clear that human-specie or humankind is only one and
Chapter-4
For example: - a deluded human being remains generous
for some time, but after some time he becomes miserly.
In the same way living in delusion is characterized by
mutually contradictory actions, as manifestation of that
mindset. This alone is the whole expression of human
Another example, a person is extremely foolish or is
unawakened and he upon coming in contact with an
awakened person the thirst for awakening arises in him
and his awakening begins. This is the awakening
progression and awakening process due to inspiration of
The greatness of human tradition is in continuity
of awakening.
Impressions are of two kinds: -
Righteous impression (susanskar): - The tendencies of
awakening which are there in practice and are instilled in
getting evidenced. The meaningful tendencies of
resolution and prosperity are righteous impressions.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-4
Unrighteous impression (kusanskar): - The tendency of
All righteous impressions eventually turn into tendencies
and desires of righteousness and get evidenced in the form
of work, activities, behaviour and realization upon finding
appropriate time, place and opportunity.
Humankind has endeavoured to recognize its own
significance in relation with material, conscious and
Omnipresence. In the absence of recognizing material and
conscious in the all pervasive Omnipotence that is present
at all places, or without knowledge, wisdom and science
the nurturing and conservation of social-living is not
possible. In the absence of appropriate norms and
orderliness, the exploitation of one human being by
another is inevitable.
Human being is incapable of understanding
realities as they are due to absence of complete
wisdom and science arising in him. This alone is
the cause of delusion.
A human being first desires to understand his own self,
but in the absence of above described inability he cannot
appraise his own self correctly. This has been explained
delusion status only.
Therefore, to become inclined for Awakening the only
meaningful-device that a human being has is to keep his
receptivity oriented towards directions, orders and
messages of more awakened human beings than himself.
A human being succeeds in knowing and recognizing his
significance in Cosmic order through this process alone.
Effortlessness becomes natural upon knowing and
Chapter-5
Non-delusion itself is Effortlessness
Chapter-5
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
All human beings are in anticipation and in wait
of effortlessness.
Resolution itself is evidence of effortlessness and
Problem is with friction and suffering.
Resolution and problem for a human being are with
distinction of conscious and material.
At the root of material aspect - prosperity itself is
resolution, else there is problem.
is resolution, else there is problem.
realization in absolute truth as coexistence. The root cause
trying to live in animal consciousness based on
individualism and communalism.
Realization and prosperity both are activities. Upon
While work-activities are needed for prosperity for the
duration of bodily-journey. This need of material also ends
with end of bodily-journey, therefore this is temporary.
In this way realization has natural-continuity.
Success is only in the stage of non-delusion.
All human beings of knowledge order are close to
the evolution stage of non-delusion. Awakening
means realization in coexistence. Next to
awakened human beings are the human beings in
awakening progression. These are human beings
in delusion. These alone are pashu manav and
rakshas manav. Therefore it is proved that highest
awakening is absence of delusion or
accomplishment of non-delusion status.
characteristics, innate-nature and religion of the unit
getting indicated through words. Only realization happens
of this. All units are there in the Omnipotence. Truth is as
material and conscious nature enfolded in the
Omnipresence. This alone is absolute truth, therefore
study is of only truth in the form of realness and
accomplishment is only of this understanding and its
evidence. Accomplishment is only in, from and for
coexistence. Truth is in the form of coexistence because
of its eternal presence.
Completion of study of Truth itself is non-delusion.
Dispelling of delusion is absolutely necessary for
realization in truth in the form of coexistence as
living-with-humanness.
Upon non-delusion, study and practice in work
and behaviour of wisdom and science necessarily
takes place. Thereby, upon coherence in
successive insights and achievements at spiritual,
conscious and physical levels.
Realization is only of Truth, because it is eternal
presence. If realization keeps changing then it is
not realization.
Material activities undergo transformation
therefore these prove to be time-dependent.
Entire activities are disciplined and conserved
from laws. Law is unchanging, therefore law
proves to be truth and eternal.
In the absence of understanding of Truth from
realization oriented method, it is not possible to
attain realization in Truth and all-round
Chapter-5
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Understanding (bodh): - Understanding of realization
happens in buddhi and perception of realization happens
Perception (prateeti), Intuition (abhas), Sense (bhas): The realization of coexistence happens in atma. The
and chitta, which itself is the direct perception
(contemplation) of realization. In the union of chitta and
vritti there is intuition of realization, which in itself is
evaluation-activity with perspectives of justice, religion and
truth. In the union of vritti and mun there is sense of
realization - which gets manifested as savouring of values
and choices in relationships.
Realization oriented understanding (anubhav-gami
bodh): - The activities of acceptances that take place in
buddhi in the attestation of atma or realization.
Chapter-5
Justice, religion and truth getting accepted in buddhi as a
result of study imparted from realization rooted method.
Realization rooted understanding (anubhav-moolakbodh): - The effect of realization in coexistence and its
continuity itself is realization rooted understanding. After
such realization rooted understanding there is natural
of such understanding and conviction itself is realization
rooted contemplation. Imaging and evaluation activities
mutual alignment of science and wisdom gets achieved.
As a result, the values are achieved in relationships in
human tradition, their acceptance, their fulfillment and
of awakening.
Until jeevan or human being remains in delusion,
traditionally intellect without understanding of
Delusion has no existence. From this it is clear
that delusion is as beliefs accepted by human being
due to fear and greed. Beliefs of delusion are
limited till imaging that happens in chitta.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Therefore buddhi does not become deluded.
Buddhi remains dormant and it becomes
awakened only from realization rooted method.
False sense of self and delusion both these are
indicative of lack of qualification for realization
in Truth.
Understanding (bodh) of Truth is the final
accomplishment of study thereafter realization is
In the absence of understanding of Truth by
realization oriented method there is no realization
in Truth and without realization in Truth there is
Truth is understanding of coexistence. This itself
is eternal Truth in the form of coexistence.
Realization in Truth results in absolute bliss;
understanding of Truth results in contentment
(bliss and resolution); behaviour of truthfulness
or humane behaviour results in realization and
accomplishment of coherence (resolution and
Absolute-bliss (paramanand): - When realization in
coexistence happens in atma - in, from and for human
being - then its eternal-effect is known as absolute-bliss.
When realization activity takes place in atma,
from that moment there is continuity of trust in
Coexistence itself is the object in, from and for
Bliss (anand): - The effect of atma with realization in truth
on buddhi is inundation, which itself is bliss.
Chapter-5
Contentment (santosh): - The effect of atma with
realization in truth on chitta itself is contemplation which
itself is ecstacy or contentment.
Peace (shanti) : - The effect of atma with realization in
truth on vritti is known as enthusiasm or peace.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
Happiness (sukha): - The effect of atma with realization
in truth on mun is known as joy or happiness.
For humankind only universality is practicable,
resolution causing, balance causing and heavenly.
Balance (santulan): - Not letting excess happen in both
ethical and practicability aspects itself is balance.
Behaviour with justice, religion and truth itself is
the essence of universality.
The commitment towards righteous wealth,
righteous marital relationship and kindness in
work and behaviour itself is behaviour of justice.
The coherence of justice and religion gets
evidenced in habits of food, enjoyment and
behaviour evidencing absence of hoarding, hatred,
conceit, ignorance and fear and presence of unhoarding affection, naturalness, knowledge
(wisdom and science) and fearlessness. Its
absence is disconnectedness in justice, religion
and truth. Individualism and communalism is due
Universality means becoming complementary and helpful
for awakening of each other.
Based on comparative study of universality described
awakening is observable in delusion, discerning and in
Universality becomes successful only from human
beings in non-delusion status. Hence it is proven
that awakened social order is absolutely necessary
for realization of human being in non-delusion
Universality in humankind is not found in the
absence of study and orderliness of mutually
aligned science and wisdom.
The study of physical and chemical experimentation is
known as science and study of conscious aspect is known
as wisdom. The purpose is ascertained with wisdom and
direction is ascertained by science.
Omnipresence, coexistence and evidence of
awakening is from completion of study only.
Material prosperity needs study and practice of
physical-aspects. Material prosperity gets
deployed in both use and good-use. This study and
practice for production activities and the use and
good-use is not possible in the absence of
conscious aspect. Therefore study is necessary for
Study at its root is of material aspect and conscious
aspect; material and conscious aspects at its root
is deterioration and advancement; deterioration
and advancement at its root is effort, motion and
constitution, progress in nature gets manifested
as immortality of constitution, effortlessness of
effort and destination of motion; study of unitness
is necessary at the root of effort, motion and
constitution of units; and at the root of unitness,
study of jeevan-unit in effortless status that is
realized in the all pervasive Omnipotence
immanent as absolute energy.
Atoms of every evolution stage are continuously
active. The energy that is homogeneously
immanent to them is Space, Omnipresence itself.
Countless units are continuously active while
being inspired in the Omnipresence. Human being
thirsts for realization while getting inspiration in
the Omnipresence.
There is no effortlessness in human being in the
absence of realization in knowledge, therefore
Chapter-5
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
The activities, procedures, processes and
accomplishments of occupation, experimentation,
behaviour, use and good-use depend on study of
science aligned with wisdom.
The expression of realization, evidence and
understanding happens through the medium of
brain. This happens only in human tradition.
Awakened human being and human imagination
together result in awakened human tradition.
Effort, motion and constitution are manifested as follows:
- Motion and constitution together accomplish effort (as
direction of evolution). Effort and motion together
accomplish constitution (as quantity of matter of the unit).
Constitution and effort together accomplish motion (as
It has been described earlier that a unit in more evolved
stage has the tendency of recognizing units in same or less
evolution stages. Accordingly, any common unit of
knowledge order has made use, good-use and misuse (due
to delusion) of many units of animal order. In the same
way, any common unit of animal order is complementary
to many units of pranic order and any common unit of
pranic order is complementary to many units of material
order. The same principle is evidenced in development of
potential, ability and receptivity in the stage of awakening
Every unit of material order is in mutual coexistence. Every
unit of pranic order is mutual pulsation. Every unit of
animal order as material-body has mutual pulsation and
has mutual pulsation and (awakened) jeevan has activities
of vibration, wants, exuberance, impetuses, thoughts,
desires, convictions and evidence of realization as
continuity of being in the stage of awakening.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
One realized unit of knowledge order proves to be
inspiration for resolution and worthy of following for many
units in discerning and delusion statuses.
Material order has innateness of existence and
balance in its evolution stage; pranic order has
innateness of existence and growth and balance
in its evolution stage; animal order has innateness
of existence, growth and want-to-be-alive along
with consumption-tendency and balance in its
evolution stage; knowledge order has innateness
of existence, growth and want-to-be-alive with
awakening in the form of realization of resolution,
prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence as
balance in its evolution stage. This is the entire
subject matter for study.
beings are united in right and fragmented in
wrong. Fragmentation from being wrong (due to
delusion) is the root cause for struggle.
If the above principle gets internalized by
humankind then the required environment for
social harmony will present itself on its own.
The evidence of completely happy (non-delusion)
human being is in the form of resolution
(understanding) and material prosperity.
Material prosperity is achieved only from
conduct of good-use otherwise decline is
Resolution in thoughts requires behavioural
conduciveness, social harmony and provision for
study of humanness.
ethics of justice.
Resolution in thoughts necessarily requires
universality in behaviour. Universality in itself is
harmony or mutual complementariness in
knowledge, wisdom and science.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
Balance in thoughts and behaviour needs ethics
and customs for protection and conservation of
Protection (suraksha): - Maintaining the state of being of
awakening itself is protection.
In awakened human tradition humanness itself is the state
of being. Culture, civilization, norms as code of conduct
of humanness and orderliness are the four mutually
complementary-aspects. In the absence of complete study
of these four aspects, the conservation of humanness is
not possible, because criminal and unrighteous tendency
and acts give rise to inhumanness. Until a human being
attains humanness completely, he is at the stage of
inhumanness only.
The study of humanness has been described in comparative
humanness, perspective of humanness and pursuits of
humanness. Humankind will have to continue
endeavouring for their establishment, nurturing and
All efforts of studying (understanding) for conservation of
humanness while fulfilling every relationship and
association in society and orderliness are known as
impressions and conduct propagation and exhibition
thereby is known as culture.
Culture is nurtured by civilization, civilization is
nurtured by norms (code of conduct of
humanness), norms are nurtured by orderliness
The basic purpose for constitution of human
society is to achieve eternal manifestation of
There are only three causes of all fears in a human
Fear of Nature
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
Fear of Animals
Fear of Inhumanness
Distinction of advancement and deterioration
distinction of wants determines attraction and
getting attracted, distinction in attraction and
getting attracted determines attachment,
distinction in attachment determines bondage,
distinction in bondage determines impetus,
distinction in impetus determines human actions,
distinction in human actions determines their
results, distinction in results (of human actions)
of resolution and problem determines motions of
deterioration, advancement or awakening from
which there are evidences of humanness,
inhumanness and super-humanness.
Awakening of human being is only for achieving
resolution (understanding) and material
prosperity.
Human being needs holistic view (darshan) with
distinctions of gross, subtle and causal for
resolution (understanding) and material
prosperity.
The knowledge from senses (of sound, touch,
sight, taste and smell) is known as gross
understanding; The knowledge of mun, vritti and
chitta and relative forces is known as subtle
understanding; and knowledge of absolute force
(Omnipotence) and atma that gets realized in it
and buddhi that achieves understanding of it, is
known as causal understanding.
Expressions of entire units are only in the form of
activities saturated in the Omnipotence and entire
being as exuberance, inspiration, revolution,
impetus, urge and experimentation.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
characteristics, innate-nature and religion in
which indicates a form and its intrinsic meaning.
Indicate (nirdeshit karna): - The activities among humans
of understanding, teaching, doing and communicating.
This itself is the purpose of words.
Exuberance (sfuran): - Inspiration received towards
awakening is known as exuberance.
Inspiration (prerana): - Movement towards mutual
advancement (awakening) after meeting is known as
inspiration.
towards higher value and long lasting constitution or
unchangingness and awakening.
Counter revolution (pratikranti): - The movement towards
mutual deterioration after meeting is known as counter
towards lower value, instability and decline.
Impetus (samveg): - The momentum attained as a result
of union (with other) is known as impetus.
Urge (aaveg): - The momentum attained according to
Experimentation (prayog): - The momentum attained
from endeavour is known as experimentation.
The letters or group of letters used for indicating an activity
expressing meaning (of reality in existence) is known as
value in existence is in the form of reality. All values in
existence are in the form of beings.
Word is merely name of a reality in existence,
while definition explains the word and purpose of
that reality in existence; the purpose of language
becomes clear upon understanding the reality.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
The words that indicate definite activity are known
as meaningful and the words contrary to this are
known as meaningless.
Essence (purpose of being in existence) of realities
is understood by scrutinising, examining and
surveying of their form, characteristics, innatenature and religion.
Shape, area and volume determine form of a unit;
the effects of attraction, repulsion and
centeredness of the unit determine its
characteristics in coexistence determines its
The utilization of every characteristics is in growth,
permanence, or dissolution activities only. Therefore
innate-nature or tendency of every unit gets manifested as
growth-oriented, permanence-oriented, or dissolutionoriented. This activity is either towards deterioration or
The innateness of any reality is its religion.
known as exuberance or revolution and initiative
against that is known as counter revolution.
Resolution is from exuberance and problem is
from counter revolution.
The inspiration towards resolution is known as conducive
and helplessness towards problems is known as
inconducive.
The conviction, desires, wants and thoughts with
inspiration of atma are self-referenced and have
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
the conviction that arises as desires, wants and
thoughts is with references other than self, which
is counter revolution.
Effortlessness arises in living with self-reference
and effort arises from living with references other
than self (due to attachment with material aspect).
Effort (shram): - Anticipations exceeding achievements
itself is effort and achievements exceeding anticipations
itself is resolution.
customs and ethics that nurture happiness itself
is the ethics of human religion.
In human behaviour, following of customs is commonly
observed, but following of ethics is seen at some places
and not seen at other places.
The lack of ethical thoughts is the cause of
exploitation, which eventually results in misery
for oneself and for others.
Acceptance and fulfillment of duties given by
family, society and orderliness with commitment,
discipline and truthfulness develops abilities at
every level, i.e. successes with family, society and
orderliness. And in its opposite status, available
abilities and successes also get nullified.
The effect of one on another depends on the need
and evolution stage of their mutuality. Need and
evolution stage depends on their progress towards
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
The advancement of matter and its evolution stage
its mutuality whereby formation, deformation and
transformation takes place.
determines state of advancement, state of
determines means of expression, means of
initiative, initiative determines extent of progress,
extent of progress determines results and
integration and disintegration.
Human body as a vehicle is available to jeevan for
In the absence of understanding (as bodh in buddhi),
thoughts are not meaningful and in the absence of
knowledge, the purpose of buddhi is not achieved. Religion
of human being, which is most evolved stage in Cosmic
order, is happiness. Even on taking human being to the
places where matter is not there, religion of happiness was
not found lacking. Therefore knowledge which is the basis
of happiness proves to be all pervasive, because that which
is not there at a place, it is not possible to achieve it there.
Therefore knowledge proves to be all pervasive. Knowledge
gets realized by knower with knowable in human tradition.
All human beings have the potential of becoming knowers.
Realization in coexistence itself is complete
knowledge.
Omnipresence is not found lacking at any place or time
and knowledge is not found lacking in any place or time.
Knowledge is immanent in every place and time. So,
knowledge remains to be there, however exposition of
knowledge gets evidenced by awakened human being.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-5
In this way, matter proves to be beginningless and
knowledge proves to be all pervasive.
In the above context it is necessary to be clear that the
formation-deformation process that is found in material
order indicates the presence of grouping (being together),
of matters getting attacted towards groups, their getting
condensed thus manifests the law of attraction.
In exactly the same way, the pranic order manifests
hoarding-activities also along with grouping (being
together), i.e. one pranic cell accumulates numerous
minerals and also makes a formation in those. This tells
us that every pranic unit is continuously active in
composing and using minerals in its own way and it has
strong and unshakable commitment for maintaining its
As soon as an atom irreversibly transitions to conscious
plane upon progressing it becomes free from molecular
bondage, but it instantly gets into the bondage of wants.
This want then is only for being-alive.
From this we get to know that fear is definitely there at the
root of whatever harmony human being wants to achieve
in community. The intent and tendency of fight and flight
from fear is observable also in all animals. Along with this,
the consumption aspect of animals also matches the
consumption aspect of human beings. This clearly proves
that human being evidences his essence only by acquiring
characteristics and innate-nature other than animalkind
through knowledge, wisdom and science. With this
background, only humanness, super-humanness and
inhumanness gets demarcated. The study of all
dimensions of social-living is possible on this basis.
Therefore, the root cause of the desire (found in
religion of happiness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
All human beings are aspirants for happiness. All human
anticipate to experience happiness. Meaningful fulfilment
of relationships itself is awakened human tradition.
Chapter-5
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-6
Action and Result
Chapter-6
Humankind has wished happiness from entire
behaviour.
Humanness itself is happiness; only path for
becoming happy is accepting and following of
orderliness and behaviour that achieves
resolution and good-use.
Every human action includes doer, work, cause,
not, without work cause is not, without cause effect
is not, without effect result is not, without result
need is not and without need doer plane is not
achieved.
Doer (karta): - The extent to which thought is deployed in
a work, that thought aspect itself explains doer-status of
that work.
Work (karya): - The contribution on material aspect to
make it follow the image of thought-aspect is known as
Cause (kaaran): - Understanding itself is the main pulse
for origination of every subtle-activity or thought. The
root-pulse of understanding is coexistence itself. Thought
itself is the background of every human action, which itself
is the evidence of conscious impressions.
Effect (prabhav): - Clear inspiration or exuberance for
making any result happen is known as effect. Every event
and result surfaces from inspiration and exuberance only.
Need (avashyakta): - The tendencies for fulfilling duties
and responsibilities towards associations and relationships
and for use are known as needs. All unions have their use,
good-use and purpose immanent to them.
Doer carries out work to fulfill needs or to follow
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-6
Entire human deeds are either oriented towards
deterioration or towards advancement.
Cause (background of human action) is with
distinction of exuberance or inspiration, which is
in a form of impression.
Effect is only of three kinds - attraction, repulsion,
or centeredness, which get reflected in the form
of action-reaction and result-transformation.
Result has two distinctions: - complete-result and
incomplete result. Every action is performed to
result fulfills the need of action then it is known
as complete result and if the need remains
unfulfilled then it is known as incomplete-result.
Complete result happens when righteousness of
aspirant, aspiration and means come together.
Awakening is unachievable without human being
accepting his duty towards humanness; prosperity
is unachievable without awakening; equality is
unachievable without prosperity; complete-result
is unachievable without equality; exuberance and
inspiration is unachievable without completeresult; and dutifulness (towards humanness) is
unachieved without exuberance and inspiration.
Human being becomes successful and happy from
Cause (kaaran): - The background for converting initiative
into work with use of wants, thoughts, desires and
conviction is known as cause.
Effect (prabhav): - Impression from environment, study
and practice itself is effect.
Result (fal): - The effect of impression itself is result.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
In humankind, imprints (in pranic cells) result in
human body with specie-conformance and event
of sickness. Impressions are as accomplishment
from awakening of mun, vritti, chitta and buddhi
- which gets manifested in the form of humanness,
inhumanness and super-humanness. These
(impressions and imprints) are inherited from
tradition.
Imprint (adhyas): - Imprints are there in pranic cells.
These are in the form of formation method innate in pranic
threads.
Chapter-6
Chapter-7
Humane Behaviour
Chapter-7
The worldly behaviour in awakened human
tradition is work and behaviour with progenymotive, wealth-motive and fame-motive. The work
and behaviour in deluded human tradition is
found to be stuck in four sense-objects.
Four sense-objects (vishaya chatushtaya): - Food, sleep,
fear and coitus.
Transcendental behaviour is in the form of
evidence as tradition of resolution, prosperity,
fearlessness and coexistence upon awakening
from realization rooted method.
Transcendental Behaviour (parlaukik vyavhar):Behaviour oriented towards atma and coexistence
is known as transcendental behaviour.
Whatever one accepts as his aim, he is
endeavouring to achieve that. The universal
human purpose is resolution, prosperity,
fearlessness and coexistence only.
realization determines willfulness; willfulness
determines innate-nature (of humanness); innatenature (of humanness) evidences actuality and
actuality itself is the existential purpose of
humankind in the form of tradition.
ascertained only upon awakening. This aim is evidencing
resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-7
Endeavour (prayas): - The work done with diligence for
achieving the aim is known as endeavour.
Advancement (pragati): - Movement towards excellence
and higher value which is different from prior status is
known as advancement.
Result (fal): - The duration after which the pattern of
activities changes, that duration is known as result.
Effect (prabhav): - The acceptance (understanding) for
change itself is known as effect.
Realization (anubhav): - The understanding achieved from
existential progression and complete acceptance of effects
innate in existential progression itself is realization.
Existential progression (anukram): - The way one link is
connected with next link, or one stage is connected with
next stage in existence. The existential progression and
realization is in coexistence only.
Willfulness (pratibhav): - The tendency for manifesting
the understanding and perception in living upon
realization itself is willfulness.
participation in orderliness) with willfulness is known as
attachment. This itself is inhumanness.
Purpose of Being (bhav): - Appraisal and essence itself is
known as purpose of being. Innate-nature and religion of
an evolution stage or plane itself is its purpose of being.
Religion of humankind is happiness. Innate-nature of
humankind is steadfastness, courage, generosity, kindness,
graciousness and compassion.
Innate-nature of deluded human being is wretchedness,
cunningness and cruelness and he believes attachment and
greed to be his religion.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The aim is with distinction of material and
spiritual, the diligence is with distinction of
interior and exterior, the endeavours are with
distinction of individualistic and holistic, the
movement is with distinction of advancement or
deterioration, result is with distinction of
complete or incomplete, effect is with distinction
of attraction, repulsion, or centeredness,
realization is sensory or para-sensory, willfulness
is natural or unnatural, tendency and attachment
is ordained and unordained and the state of being
is high (righteous) or low (unrighteous) in human
being. Jeevan itself is the carrier and bearer of
Changeable aim is known as worldly and the aim
that does not change is known as spiritual; the
activities of mun, vritti, chitta and buddhi are
known as interior and the actions performed
through sense-organs (hearing, touching, sight,
taste and smell) are known as exterior; unitness
is known as individualistic and wholeness is
known as holistic; forward-movement is known as
advancement and backward-movement is known
as deterioration; the achievement which fulfills
the intent is known as complete result, otherwise
it is known as incomplete result; growth oriented
effect is known as attraction, permanence oriented
effect is known as centeredness and dissolution
oriented effect is known as repulsion; the
knowledge obtained only from sensory-activities
(of hearing, touching, sight, taste and smell) is
known as sensory realization and the tendencies
for manifesting realization in atma by mun, vritti,
chitta and buddhi is known as para-sensory
realization; the inspiration towards actuality is
known as natural willfulness and its opposite is
known as unnatural willfulness; the commitment
towards justice, religion and truth is known as
ordained acceptance and its opposite is known as
thoughts are known as high (righteous) and
problem oriented tendency is known as low
(unrighteous).
Chapter-7
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
From the method of Study, the acceptance of Truth
(coexistence) in mun is known as reflection, the
acceptance of excellence of Truth in vritti is known
as evaluation, the acceptance of permanence of
Truth in chitta is known as perception and
acceptance of absoluteness of Truth in buddhi is
known as understanding.
At the root of ignorance is the false sense of self
(absence of understanding) and at the root of
knowledge is self-knowledge and absolute truth in
the form of coexistence.
Reflection is with distinctions of exuberance,
inspiration or revolution; evaluation is with
distinctions of balance and imbalance; imaging is
with distinctions of meaningful or imposition and
understanding of truth has distinction of
realization rootedness.
Impetus upon balance (advancement towards
righteousness) is known as exuberance and
inspiration and impetus upon imbalance
(attachment to material aspects) is known as
counter revolution.
The evaluation from the perspective of justiceinjustice, religious-irreligious and truth-untruth
the perspective of pleasant-unpleasant, healthyunhealthy and profit-loss is known as
Contemplation and imaging from the perspective
the perspective of pleasant-unplesant, healthyunhealthy and profit-loss is known as
Chapter-7
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Acceptance of realities attained in the attestation
of realization is known as understanding of Truth
and as its opposite believing sensory-perception
as reality itself is delusion, which itself is untruth.
The way untruth does not exist as a reality, in the
same way false sense of self also does not exist as
reality. The activity of believing unreal as real
takes place as imaging in chitta. This happens on
the basis of imagination.
The impetus for advancement towards duties is
known as exuberance and inspiration and the
conscious endeavours and physical efforts out of
helplessness are known as counter revolution.
Movement towards excellence (righteousness) is
known as revolution and movement towards
deterioration (unrighteousness) is known as
counter revolution.
Actions that are without any problems and actions
that realize resolution of problems are known as
balanced; and actions ridden with problems or
actions that give rise to problems are known as
unbalanced or counter revolution.
Problem is a conscious crisis and helplessness is
a material crisis (poverty).
Holistic view (darshan) as knowledge of
coexistence, knowledge of jeevan and knowledge
of conduct of humanness itself is known as
knowledge of actuality and its opposite is known
as imposition.
The understanding of realization with recognition
of coexistence in the eternal Omnipotence is
known as understanding of Truth and its opposite
is known as delusion.
Strong impetus is that which gets converted into
physical action.
Chapter-7
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The stress, speed and thirst of an impetus is
determined and restrained from desire and
The relationships and associations in a human
use and good-use by way of awakening. The
endeavour for awakening in these relationships
and associations is for social harmony. The
endeavours of fulfilling duties in relationships and
associations is for maintaining balance of the
present and the efforts with desire of sensory
contentment are the causes of lust and
imbalance and problems.
The behaviour for achieving awakening is known
as fortitude, endeavours of fulfilling relationships
are known as dutifulness and behaviour towards
sensory-enjoyment is known as helplessness.
The acceptance of duties and needs is there in
Duty (kartavya): - Fulfillment of relationships with
recognition, as evidence of commitment.
Responsibility (dayitva): - Expression of values with
recognition of relationships with its appraisal, from which
contentment is experienced.
There is provision for complete fulfillment of
duties but there is no provision for completely
fulfilling of needs of sensory enjoyment.
There is provision for complete fulfillment of
duties since those are definite and meaningful.
There is no provision for complete fulfillment of
needs of sensory enjoyment (comforts and
hoarding) since those are indefinite and
Chapter-7
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-7
This is the reason, extent of progress in fulfillment
of duties is oriented towards peace and tendency
of sensory enjoyment is oriented towards distress.
relationships and associations.
Impetus itself results in choice and choices are
oriented for hoarding, nurturing, extraction,
renunciation, or exploitation. All these activities
are of wants.
Human life is not successful without fulfillment
of duties.
Successful life is that is complete with intellectual
resolution (understanding) and material
prosperity.
Material prosperity is only with production with
coexistential harmony in excess of definite needs.
Realization in coexistence itself is non-delusion
and intellectual resolution (understanding).
Balanced study of science and wisdom and its
practice in work itself is evidence of non-delusion.
The needs become limited and disciplined in living
of humanness. The needs become even more
disciplined in super-humanly living.
The extent to which one has fear and delusion is
the extent to which he believes in importance of
material means for becoming happy. For example
becoming happy through weapons and seeking
refuge. One who is affected from greed tries
becoming happy through hoarding. One who is
affected from hatred tries becoming happy
through destruction. The ignorant tries becoming
happy by blaming others. One who is affected from
conceit tries becoming happy through neglecting
receptivity for knowledge is the cause of happiness
and misery.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-7
Environment and study are helpful for making one
worthy receptive or unworthy receptive for
knowledge.
Human being becomes happy upon achieving
complete proficiency in behaviour, production,
study, work and ethics of humanness.
Chapter-8
Chapter-8
Planes and Transcendence
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The realities are with distinction of planes and
The classification of planes is accomplished from
comparative study of evolution stages and
proportions of form, characteristics, innatenature and religion in units of nature. Therefore
planes are many and transcendence is the
A plane is determined by proportion of form,
evolution stage (innate-nature) and its immanent
strength and force. This itself is the eternal
manifestation.
That which is not in any plane or is not limited and
in which all planes are included or in which they
are also enfolded, that is known as transcendence.
This itself is Omnipotence, Almighty (ishwar),
Form is with distinction of shape, area and
volume; word is with distinction of sound,
modulation, language and definition; and the stage
and proportion of characteristics is with
distinction of growth, permanence and
The achievement from law and procedure is
homogeneous Omnipotence is known as
gets realized. This homogeneous Omnipotence
gets known to be at the root of every activity and
it is immanent and becomes clear to human being
in the form of knowledge.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Omnipotence itself is known as Omnipresence
because of its homogeneous presence. Therefore,
transcendence is all pervasive and planes are
many and limited, because units are countless.
Every unit, upon advancement or deterioration,
is situated in its respective plane according to its
potential, ability and receptivity.
The plane of a unit is determined from its
constitution, function and conduct.
Plane determines distinction in meaning, meaning
determines distinction in conduct and behaviour,
conduct and behaviour determines distinction in
activities and activities determine meaning.
An object bound from six sides is known as unit
and many such units or group of units is known as
countless and unlimited state is known as absolute
energy which itself is the all pervasive
Omnipotence. Omnipresence is continually
realized by (awakened) human being as bliss.
There is mere sense of happiness and misery with
limited understanding. The sense of happiness
and misery happens in mun and their intuition
happens in vritti. In continuity of happiness
buddhi has perception and atma has realization,
which has continuity.
The parts of body which can be controlled and
activated as desired are known as sensory organs,
which are also known as senses of speech, touch,
taste, sight and smell.
Chapter-8
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The efforts and endeavours for achieving
temporary (non-lasting) results are known as
Understanding of Truth (satya-bodh) is in eternal
and permanent Omnipotence; Understanding of
Truth results in Perception and Realization of
Truth; Perception and Realization of Truth results
in Balance; Balance results in Exuberance;
results in Resolution; Resolution results in Purity
in Behaviour; Purity in Behaviour results in
Coexistence; Coexistence results in Heavenliness;
Heavenliness results in Unopposedness; and
Unopposedness results in eternal and permanent
Understanding of Truth.
The differences in aims of human beings are based
on differences of their needs, from which the
human life becomes successful from
transcendental aim (awakening of conscious
aspect), otherwise human life is unsuccessful.
Obstructions in behaviour are from distorted
thoughts and spontaneity in behaviour is from
righteous impressions on conscious aspect.
Chapter-8
Chapter-9
Realized Perspective
Chapter-9
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The observer, observable reality and realized
perspective must compulsorily be there for
holistic view (darshan).
The activity of holistic viewing is from the union
along with the observable reality. The activity of
holistic viewing happens when potential of
with the activity of seeing them in exactly that way.
Differences in views of observable reality among
human beings results in differences in their aims
he accepts the meaning associated with that view
as his aim. This appraisal activity demarcates
holistic view (darshan) is in accordance with his
environment, study and prior impressions. The
movement towards awakening or deterioration is
according to potential, ability and receptivity only.
The understanding achieved from realized
perspective as acceptance of impressions is known
as holistic view (darshan).
Holistic view (darshan): - The activities performed with
the perspectives of justice, religion and truth are known
as holistic view (darshan).
Environment is with distinction of natural and
Study is with distinction of holistic view
(darshan), ideology, literature, history and verse.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
Experimentations are with distinction of
conforming to imprints of specie,
understanding of the method or without
understanding of the method.
That which undergoes formation and deformation
is known as material nature. Human being studies
that which got formed before the present and
infers that which has possibility of getting formed
in the future. All formations are known as
Literature (shastra): - The group of words which instill
understanding by indicating the principle, procedure, law
and reality towards definite purpose are known as
Principle is combined evidence of law, procedure
and result - because without being resolved about
law and procedure it is not possible achieve
holistic view (darshan) of any activity and result.
The refinement in thoughts or resolution has been
possible only from achieving understanding of law
and procedure of the activitiy.
Verse (kavya): - The group of words used for conveying
the feelings, thoughts and imaginations of awakened
human being towards existential purpose of humankind
is known as verse.
History (itihas): - The chronological account in words of
acts and past events of humanness for the purpose of
remembering them is known as history.
examination with maps, for achieving the knowledge of
composition, from the reference of human being and
humanness is known as geography.
is in the purview of human consciousness, godly
consciousness and divine consciousness. The trust in
righteousness is known as refined impression.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
The tendency and behaviour of humanness is
known as justice and the tendency and behaviour
of inhumanness is known as injustice.
After understanding the actuality, the rise of
commitment towards it is known as trust.
The work done with justice is known as righteous-act
and the work done with injustice is known as
unrighteous-act.
Justice itself is the necessary law for humanness,
which itself conserves and nurtures humanness.
Restraint of human behaviour is from justice,
discipline in thoughts is from religion and
realization is only from Truth.
Restraint is only from law. Innateness is only from
aim worthy of acceptance and eternal presence
itself is Truth.
Human being has accepted happiness as an
acceptable fact and aim from birth itself.
Happiness is the aim of jeevan. This aim of jeevan
purpose of resolution, prosperity, fearlessness
and coexistence.
Ugliness and beauty is only from distinction of
gross and subtle. Awakening in humanness is
from study and practice of science and wisdom
with awakening and delusion.
Anticipations of mental well being are from
attachment or reality (non-attachment) only.
These anticipations are in the form of - universal
orderliness upon liberation from delusion. The
work, thoughts and behaviour which gives rise to
conflicts is accepted as unworthy of doing and
those which give rise to happiness (resolution) are
accepted as norm.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
Natural and constructed environment is either
conducive or inconducive for humankind.
The anticipations in humankind are according to
evolution stages of inhumanness, humanness and
Scripture is that which gives clear distinction
between bondage and salvation. The wants,
thoughts, desires and convictions are from the
the possibility and opportunity for analyzing,
studying and experimenting is there only with
Material nature is with quantity, dynamic being
and eternal manifestation.
Entire material nature has continuous atomic
activity. Atoms are in the form of groups and
constitutions with activities in nucleus and
orbiting particles. Thereby it gets known to human
being that material nature has spontaneous and
continuous activity.
When a (material) atom progresses (achieves
become
conscious, from that moment it has the want-tobe-alive in the form of bondage. This is evidenced
from the fact that every unit of animal order wants
to live.
Human being while remaining alive, because of
intellect and thoughts, uses his thoughts, desires,
false sense of self and conviction through mun,
The bondage of vritti is of deluded thoughts, which
is believing own thoughts to be superior and from
this thoughts of inhumanness arise, because
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
Liberation from bondage of thoughts is from
thoughts of justice.
The bondage of chitta is that of desire, which is
or from believing imagination of delusion to be
contemplation. The bondage of desire furthers
inhumanness and gives rise to worries.
Contemplation of understanding of truth (imaging
of resolution) results in liberation from the
bondage of desire.
beliefs and thereby considering himself to be
superior is bondage of desire in him. This itself is
Liberation from delusion is from complete
understanding of Truth.
Attachment to material aspect results in misery
and problem and self realization results in natural
continuity of happiness.
Material aspect keeps transforming therefore
happiness from it is also momentary. Therefore
attachment to material aspect is the cause of
Understanding of self is immortal or unchanging;
therefore happiness from understanding of self is
permanent. Understanding of self means
acceptance of realization.
Therefore endeavours of finding happiness in that
which does not have continuity of happiness itself
is bondage and where happiness is natural, its
realization is salvation.
Actions (of a deluded human being) remain
desires remain engaged for fulfilling actions,
whose contentment is not there. Therefore the
combined form of deluded desires and actions is
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
That which cannot be fulfilled, that which is not
complete, the stubbornness for fulfilling that is
The mirage or delusion is dispelled only from
holistic view (darshan) upon realization in
Holistic view and realization of self is only in
characteristics, innate-nature and religion is
compulsory.
The study of entire Cosmic order is in the context
of material, conscious and Omnipresence. This is
evident in the form of physical, chemical and
Human being has studied entire Cosmic order
from six perspectives: - (1) pleasant-unpleasant,
(2) healthy-unhealthy, (3) profit-loss, (4) justiceinjustice, (5) religious-irreligious, (6) truthuntruth.
Expectation of happiness gives rise to intention,
intention gives rise to need of understanding, need
of understanding gives rise to study, study gives
in perspective, realized perspective gives rise to
holistic view (darshan), holistic view (darshan)
gives rise to absolute clarity and absolute clarity
gives rise to definite plan.
The perspectives of pleasant-unpleasant, healthyunhealthy and profit-loss in human being are
active only from greed of material wealth and
sensory contentment. Along with this, the
perspectives of justice-injustice, religiousirreligious and truth-untruth are active only from
convictions of religion and salvation. Liberation
from delusion itself is salvation.
Chapter-9
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
Realization of salvation and religion is necessary
for achievement of humanness and superhumanness.
Greed is the background for accomplishments of
delusion. The thoughts of considering meaningful
accomplishment are known as intent. That
without whose accomplishment contentment is
not possible, is known as need.
In the attestation of atma, the endeavour with
memorization is known as study. Ability is
strength and force. All human selfs have same
potential. The expression of potential is known
as perspective and the reflection in perspective is
known as view. Reflection means understanding.
Coexistence itself is the entire observable reality.
Holistic view (darshan) of the observable reality,
as realization in material and conscious nature
saturated in Omnipotence is indicative of complete
awakening of a unit of knowledge order.
Only suffering of struggle results from cravings to
delusion and efforts engaged therein. This itself
is delusion. For this reason, humankind has
endeavoured for becoming liberated from this
suffering of struggles, which became successful or
potential, ability and receptivity.
Human being has tried to study inhumanness,
humanness and super-humanness. Perspectives,
innate-natures and pursuits of these three have
Holistic view (darshan) in coexistence itself is
knowledge, knowledge itself is law and law itself
is restraint, which is evident in existence.
Chapter-9
Every activity is restrained from law.
Observer, observation and observable reality are
three activities.
Humankind has awaited and endeavoured to
achieve effortlessness by accomplishing material
objects, which has proved to be unsuccessful.
Along with this, coexistence has also been achieved
through coherence in thoughts and behaviour,
which is the natural grandeur of law and
Entire activities (of nature) are restrained and
unit and other unit is not devoid of Space.
Therefore Space itself proves to be the cause of law
and restraint in nature. Human being has
endeavoured, is endeavouring and will continue
endeavouring at many levels to attain potential,
ability and receptivity worthy of getting its sense,
intuition and realization.
At the root of above endeavours there is potential,
at the root of potential is study, at the root of study
is receptivity, at the root of receptivity is ability,
at the root of ability is practice, at the root of
practice is means for practicing, at the root of
means for practicing is coherence; at the root of
every human being based on his status of
Universality is the activity of following the actions
and directions for mutual resolution.
Universality and awakening is only from following
the directions expressed with clarity, otherwise
there is delusion and regression.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
It is not possible to accomplish awakening through
inhuman education where one deluded human
awakened human being only can pave the path of
awakening of a deluded human being and this
itself is the evidence of awakening in self.
Every unit is only a part in comparison of the
countless all.
Every unit is constituted of many parts.
Coherence cannot be accomplished through
fragmentation, because every activity is based on
some constitution only. On this basis,
fragmentation is found to be with conflict (heat or
misery). This heat or misery again becomes the
cause of fragmentation of another.
Nothing could be annihilated out of existence by
fragmentation, because mathematically even after
fragmenting many times something still remains.
Fragmentation in humankind is recognized in the
form of communities, while with coherence whole
humankind gets recognized as one undivided unit.
Human being behaves with distinction of worldly
Entire worldly behaviour is with distinction of self
interest or altruistic interest and transcendental
behaviour is with distinction of tethered or
untethered.
The behaviour that serves interests of self is with
distinction of ethical and unethical. Such
own group, own caste, own mind, own community,
own opinion and own language, while universal
behaviour has resolution for all people, all groups,
all minds, all communities, all opinions and all
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Self interest (greed) is from distinction of wealth
and sensory-contentment.
Altruistic interest is from distinction of religion
and wealth.
Holistic thoughts and behaviour are from
distinction of religion and salvation.
All behaviour with necessary laws for humanness
all behaviour of inhumanness due to delusion is
The tendency of considering own people, own
things and own comforts as significant and
considering those of others as insignificant is
the tendency of assuming higher significance to
other people, things of others and comfort of
The thoughts of fame-motive (righteous-fame) and
wealth-motive are tethered, one is resolved and is
liberated from the difficulties of delusion and is
awakened, while completeness in awakening
one is with clear demarcation of tethered thoughts
and untethered thoughts.
The resolved thoughts or manifestation of
knowledge, wisdom and science itself is the
Chapter-9
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-9
The conceit and false sense of self found in the
individualistic existence itself is the root cause of
narrow mindedness and conflicts.
The actual understanding of holistic existence
accomplishes generosity and gratitude and
realization in all pervasive Omnipotence roots out
thoughts of humanness are not; without thoughts
behaviour is not; without humanness in work and
unopposedness (integral society) is not; without
is not achieved; without resolution and prosperity
evidence of holistic view (darshan) of realities is
not there.
Chapter-10
Liberation from Conflicts
The want of liberation from conflicts is found to
be there in all human beings.
Liberation from misery and liberation from
these distinctions only. Entire studies, worships
faiths have been for this purpose only. The ancient
traditions do not have any evidence of liberation,
nor has any path become studiable. Therefore,
this proposal is for liberation from delusion.
Study clarifies the constitution, process, result
and purpose of every unit.
Form and characteristics undergo continuous change,
while substance of their constitution is permanent which
is found to be there in all four evolution stages. The basic
substance in constitution of all large units is atom and the
constitution principle of atoms of all element types is the
particles. All evolution stages are from the distinction in
activity of atomic-particles and evolution stage.
Study itself is devotion (upasana). Self realized
human being alone is the teacher, in whose
closeness itself the study takes place. It is from
understanding achieved from study upon
alignment and attunement with realities that one
achieves the capability of independence.
Teacher (adhyapak): - The one who imparts
understanding of truth in the form of coexistence through
realization oriented procedure from realization rooted
Chapter-10
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-10
Production results in acccomplising useful
materials and their large scale availability.
Practice achieves profinciency in skills, behaviour
and knowledge.
The study happens with commitment, for
the light of justice, religion and truth. Realization
happens as a result of commitment. Realization
is only in Truth. Realization in absolute Truth in
the form of coexistence itself is liberation from
All pervasive Omnipotence is permeable and
transparent, while gods-goddesses are many.
with reverence and trust itself is ideal in coexistence.
The realization is only from commitment towards
ideal in the form of understanding of coexistence.
Jeevan element is of immortal kind, therefore
every human being has the opportunity of
attaining ability for becoming realized in the
That whose existence proves to be only in the
mutuality of material and conscious nature
saturated in the Omnipotence is known as
Un-hoarding gives rise to untethered tendency,
which results in achieving all-round resolution
and prosperity.
righteously is known as un-hoarding. This is
achieved by way of righteous wealth (having what
Modesty (akritatva): - The actions devoid of conceit are
known as modesty. The activities with hoarding tendency
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-10
Not doing that which is unworthy of doing and accepting
the actions that are ordained itself is liberation from
unnecessary actions. This itself is modesty. Whatever
conflict-causing. The eradication of bondage is from
actions of realization based awakening which are
resolution-causing, happiness-causing and goodnesscausing, which itself is modesty. This itself is achievement
and prosperity.
Disinterest from delusion itself is modesty.
Inhumanness itself is unworthy of doing for every
human being. Not doing which is unworthy of
Disinterest is liberation from attachment, which
is liberation from over-valuation, under-valuation
The capability of becoming free from activity is not
there in any unit, or such state has not been
accomplished by any unit, therefore attempting to
free oneself from action is denoted as flaw of
inaction, lethargy and negligence.
Inaction (akarmanatva): - Inaction is found in the form
of lethargy and negligence. The endeavours of achieving
freedom from actions are known as inaction.
Lethargy (alasya): - Not doing some action despite
believing it to be right and knowing its purpose itself is
Negligence (pramad): - The action whose purpose is clear,
but in the absence of not having the required knowledge,
Disinterest is from the distinction of partial or
manifestation of total disinterest. This becomes
evident in the form of priority for beneficence.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-10
All interior and exterior activities are with
distinction of attraction, repulsion and centering.
Conscious aspect is known as interior and material
aspect along with body is known as exterior.
Excess of attraction is cause of repulsion activity
and excess of repulsion is cause of attraction
activity. This cycle of formation-deformation is
The centeredness of humankind is only in
status itself is manifestation of innate-nature.
Every material atom too is with activity of
centeredness in itself. The potential for
normalizing excesses of attraction and repulsion
is there in the nucleus.
Atma is activity of centeredness. Awakening is
accordance with atma. Awakening itself is
centeredness.
In a constitutionally complete awakened unit
(jeevan) the activities of buddhi, chitta, vritti and
mun are attuned to atma and are restrained by its
centering process. As a result - happiness, peace,
contentment and bliss is achieved.
There is no unit which is devoid of activity. The
attraction, repulsion and centeredness activities
are found to be always there. As it has been
described above, the attraction and repulsion
activities donot have balance. Therefore, a unit is
balanced from activity of centeredness through the
process of centering. Therefore, it is the activity
of centeredness only that gets evidenced in the
conduct of unit, while attraction and repulsion
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The centeredness of human behaviour is from
justice, the centeredness of thoughts is from
resolution (religion) and centeredness of
realization is from knowledge, wisdom and
tradition of all-round resolution.
Entire human behaviour is restrained from law.
Thoughts are restrained only from resolution,
which is evidence of awakening.
Realization is only in Coexistence which is nature
saturated in the Omnipotence. Realization is only
in Omnipresence, which is Space.
Therefore it is proven that realization in
coexistence itself is evidence of knowledge.
Knowledge is as understanding of presence of
countless units in the Omnipresence. The
inseparableness of countless units of nature in the
Omnipresence itself is coexistence.
Completely awakened human being is found to be
with behaviour of justice and thoughts of
Realization is only in Truth in the form of
coexistence. Realization in Truth is only by unit
of knowledge order in non-delusion status and its
effect as inundation is there on buddhi, chitta,
Thoughts and accordingly behaviour of both
attraction and repulsion get manifested as
activities of taste.
Taste (asvadan): - The activities of sensory reception or
experiencing with anticipation and interest, for the purpose
of resolution are known as taste.
Chapter-10
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-10
The centeredness in behaviour upon realization
in coexistence, which is an activity of vritti, gets
manifested in the form of justice and resolution.
When understanding of realization is achieved,
the activity of buddhi gets inundated.
According to above, justice and religion (or
resolution) are different levels of realization only.
Therefore, the realization aspect in behaviour is
justice. The realization aspect in thoughts is
resolution. And realization aspect in atma is in
coexistence. This alone is the absolute truth.
Centeredness in human behaviour or behavioural
balance is achieved from the ability of mediation
in behaviour of attraction and repulsion. This
ability is in the form of justice. The centeredness
in thoughts is from the ability of producing
resolution between thoughts of attraction and
repulsion and centeredness of realization is in the
form of entire nature being saturated in the
The awakening in atma is the result of becoming
realized in the Omnipotence. The awakening of
buddhi and chitta is as ability of producing
resolution in thoughts, the awakening of vritti and
mun is as ability of harmonizing entire work and
The modesty in an unattached-unit is in the form
of liberation from delusion. It is in the form of
having acceptance of doing ever more beneficence.
Tendency in the direction of ideal (coexistence)
and tendency not being there in other directions,
is known as willful disinterest. That which gets
realized in all dimensions is known as complete
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
disharmony)
unattachment, which itself is awakening.
Disinterest in disharmony itself is modesty,
is fearlessness and prosperity, fearlessness and
prosperity itself is heavenliness, heavenliness
itself is unconceitedness, unconceitedness itself is
realization in the Omnipresence, realization in the
Omnipresence itself is centeredness, centeredness
itself is authenticity, authenticity itself is
disinterest in disharmony as liberation from
Nurturing and growth of human society is the
innate-nature of human beings who have become
liberated from delusion.
The meaning of quietude: - Being liberated from all flaws
(over-valuation, under-valuation and un-valuation) in
opposition to awakening is known as quietude. Quietude
means, evidence of awakening.
Chapter-10
Chapter-11
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
units in Omnipotence) and coincidental (meeting
of two units).
That which is coincidental, attachment in that
itself is the cause of entire union and separation.
Centeredness in behaviour, thoughts and
The coincidental union is with distinctions of
Meeting of entities of same kind is known as
identical union and meeting of entities of different
kinds is known as cohabitation union.
The advancement and deterioration of a unit is
from coincidental union only.
The union of advancement is known as fortunate
and union of deterioration is known as
Human beings with thoughts and behaviour of
justice and religion and with evidence of
realization in truth are awakened or with
completely evolved consciousness; human beings
with thoughts and behaviour of justice and religion
have evolved consciousness; human beings with
thoughts and behaviour of justice are progressive;
and human beings with thoughts and behaviour
One who wastes something, will lose that thing.
Human being due to his attachment in delusion
wastes his faculties of physical strength, intellect,
body, social rank and wealth.
Chapter-11
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-11
The necessary law for humankind is conservation
of humanness only, which is justice and resolution
its opposite, the unnecessary law for humankind
following which gives rise to hellishness.
Heavenliness in thoughts is accomplished from
un-hoarding (resolution and prosperity),
affection, understanding, unconceitedness
(simplicity), fearlessness and restraint in speech.
Heavenliness in behaviour or harmony in
behaviour is accomplished from righteous marital
relationship, righteous wealth and kindness in
behaviour.
Its opposite, thoughts of hoarding, hatred, un-wisdom,
pretention, fear and unrestraint in speech gets hellishness
in thoughts; and work and behaviour that has unrighteous
marital relationship, misappropriation and which inflicts
suffering to others results in behavioural conflicts.
Human being experiences happiness or misery,
joy or sadness due to following or not following
the necessary laws of humanness.
Human being has followed the laws of nurturing
or exploitation in all his relations and associations,
objects and objectives, forms and intents. Among
these, knowing and understanding the laws that
are necessary and unnecessary for humanness
itself is study and bringing the necessary aspects
into practice at all levels itself is evidence and
accomplishment.
The levels of human living have been recognized
as individual, family, society, state, nation and
individual, family, undivided society and universal
orderliness. Third way of recognizing levels is in
the form of understanding based ten-staged family
councils, the initial stage of which is family.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The necessary law for humankind is justice, justice
itself is religion, religion itself is truth, basis of
truth itself is all pervasive Omnipotence and
coexistence, understanding in coexistence itself is
bliss, bliss itself is awakened living, awakened
human living itself is the necessary law for human
tradition. This itself is the cycle of awakening for
human living. This is a righteous cycle for human
The continuous effort in conscious unit (jeevan)
for achieving its existential purpose along with
The unnecessary law for human being is injustice.
Injustice itself is irreligiousness, irreligiousness
ungodliness itself is misery, misery itself is animalness, animal-ness is unnecessary-law for
humankind. Such living is for animals and for
humans it is an unrighteous cycle.
Universal principle at social level is known as law,
law while practicing at the level of orderliness is
known as justice, justice while practicing at international level as ethics for mutual-resolution is
known as religion, religion when practiced at
universal level is known as truth, truth when
practiced at the level of countless Cosmic order
level is known as coexistence, state of realization
in coexistence of human being is known as bliss
and realizing bliss into personal conduct is known
as awakened-living.
are four statuses of happiness.
Chapter-11
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The laws which nurture the four statuses of
happiness are known as necessary laws for
humankind and the laws which exploit these are
known as unnecessary laws. Entire human beings
are waiting, expecting, experimenting and
endeavouring for being realized in happiness.
The norms for conduct of humanness are known
as justice, progressive and harmony-causing
nature is known as religion, actuality is known as
truth, Omnipresence is known as Almighty
(ishwar), complete all-round resolution is known
as bliss, conduct of necessary laws is known as
awakened living and absolute-force is known as
Atma has the opportunity for realization in the
Omnipotence, chitta and buddhi have the
opportunity of holistically viewing of the world,
vritti and mun have the opportunity of
manifesting behaviour of justice.
The state of intellect which is liberated from all
doubts and delusion is known as complete
resolution, willful interior and exterior behaviour
is known as conduct and universal principle is
known as law.
Uncertainty is known as doubt and that which is
not actual is known as delusion.
Chapter-11
Chapter-12
Chapter-12
Traits, Worlds, World views and
Aims of Human beings
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The differences in clarity of existence in human
beings itself determines differences in their traits,
Trait (lakshan): - Form (physical appearance),
characteristics, innate-nature and religion (innateness) are
known as traits (of human being).
World (loka): - World (of a human being) is combined form
of his desires and actions.
World view (alok): - World view of a human being is (that
which he accepts as) knowledge, wisdom and science.
Aim (lakshya): - The experiments and endeavours
experiencing the union are known as aim.
view (upon understanding) is known as clarity of
existence. The attainment of direct perception,
understanding and realization from realization
rooted method and realization oriented process
itself is clarity of existence.
The aim is determined from the distinctions of
something) and immanent-union (realization in
The aim of sensory-enjoyment is the four senseobjects (food, sleep, fear and coitus). The progenymotive and wealth-motive are used for these only.
The aim of coincidental union is to influence and
affect common people, with motive of fame,
through some object or capability obtained from
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
A human being attached to sense-objects seeks
contentment of one activity through another
because, from one sensory-activity after another
only regression or experience of material nature
Entire material activities are only incomplete
(being in the pranic plane). An incomplete cannot
become content upon finding another incomplete.
The possibility of contentment is only from
realization in justice, religion and truth.
Pristine humanness is achieved only from
successful endeavours of coincidental union, as a
result of which conservation of humanness takes
place in the form of independence. The success of
coincidental union is only upon realization in
Realization in immanent union itself is complete
awakening. Such awakened units remain to be
continuous sources of inspiration for awakening
of others. This is also called as awakened
tradition.
The Truth gets recognized only from holistically
observing by the process of scrutinizing,
examining and surveying.
Entire clashes of opinions are there until above
Clash in opinions is the cause of antagonism, malevolence,
revolt, hatred, counter-hatred, suspicion, terror, slavery,
wickedness, exploitation and war.
At the root of entire clashes of opinions at the level of
civilization, it is compulsory to have more than one side
(view-point). When all of those sides are wrong or if any
one side is wrong, then struggle is inevitable. If all sides
are right, in that state struggle is not possible.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The difference in aims of human beings results in
differences in their conducts and also differences
in their thoughts.
Human being decides on his aim based on his own
understanding, based on understanding of others,
are either in the direction of completeness or
incompleteness. The direction towards actuality
endeavours are towards delusion.
The methodical study of knowledge-based wisdom
and science gives rise to endeavours towards
reality otherwise endeavours are towards
Human endeavours are in the form of work and
behaviour.
livelihood; and based on that future events and
activities take place.
The distinction in righteous-character and
unrighteous-character determines state of family
and according to that are its further
accomplishments.
The living of a society is based on the distinctions
in the ideology and propagation of principles,
opinions, group, language and caste.
The distinction in ethics of justice and
opportunism determine national character and
accordingly its future is paved towards progress
Chapter-12
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Thoughts and disciplines based on wisdom or unwisdom, science or general-knowledge determine
events of inter-national living and these are
The extent to which humankind fragments is the
extent to which it deteriorates and the extent to
which it integrates is the extent to which it
advances towards awakened tradition.
Humankind cannot have differences in opinions
without its being wrong.
The thoughts and acts based on law are known as
righteous-actions and their opposite are known as
Ethical characterization along with proficiency in
skills, behaviour and knowledge is known as
Principle is truth only. Principle is not the cause
of variation. Principle does not have variations.
If variation is there, then it is not a principle.
The ethics of justice is that from which there is
conservation of humanness. The ethics of
opportunism is that from which the conservation
of humanness doesnot happen.
The knowledge based science and wisdom is for
(resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and
Science (vigyan): - The knowledge for determining
direction for achieving universal human-purpose along
with material prosperity.
Therefore, the basic purpose of international
organization is maintaining balance and
conservation of resolution (understanding) and
material prosperity, which leads to realization of
coexistence in human-society - otherwise in the
absence of coexistence, humankind is in the form
of fragmentations.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Easiness and difficulties are interior (of thoughts)
or exterior (in behaviour).
Grandeur of prosperity is in the form of
production in excess of definite-needs; grandeur
of character is in the form of (awakened)
personality; grandeur of social harmony is in the
form of authenticity and its acceptance; grandeur
of nation is in the form of realization of justice,
awakened education and nurturing; grandeur of
international-orderliness is from realization of
prosperity, resolution, fearlessness and
coexistence achieved from knowledge based
science and wisdom. In the absence of these there
is regression.
The intent of hoarding does not achieve
contentment, because there is no point of
contentment for hoarding.
The traits of human aspirations are in the form of
common aspirations and higher aspirations and
accordingly human being has produced these and
achieved their use and good-use.
are as food, shelter and utilities. He fulfills them
through production, use and good-use.
long distance hearing (telephone) and (3) long
distance seeing (television). Human beings are
engaged also in their production and use.
Unfulfilled common aspirations give rise to
discontent, their exact fulfillment gives rise to
suspiciousness and their excessiveness gives rise
Unfulfilled higher aspirations gives rise to
curiosity, their exact-fulfillment gives rise to
contentment and their excessiveness gives rise to
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Human being has endeavoured to control others
is found in the forms of State, language, groups,
races and physical-power.
Unjust norms (laws), legislation and ethics give
and terror.
Every human being is found to be in want of justice
by birth as innate-nature, for which study that is
capable of instilling the understanding of justice
is absolutely necessary.
Human beings give consent to entire norms,
legislations and policies that are with the aim of
suppressing injustice from justice (what one
believes to be justice while being in delusion) and
of suppressing injustice from injustice. It is on this
basis one to all nations have failed.
Holistic view is all pervasive.
The world view that uproots all mysteries is known
Uprooting of mysteries is possible only from
coherent study of material, conscious and spiritual
aspects.
Only the human beings who are unattached to the
desires and actions have become realized in
knowledge. Such realized awakened human beings
naturally achieve balance in their behaviour and
resolution in their thoughts.
Sensory activity (with body) is lesser compared to
desire (in jeevan). The force of desire is busy in
ever more activity. It is wasteful to use more than
proportional force. This wastage (of force of
desire) itself is attachment. Its control and
restraint itself is unattachment.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Primarily - exploration, discovery and
accomplishments of spiritual knowledge realizes
from study of successive causes; exploration,
discovery and accomplishments of consciousnessscience (psychology) realizes from study of
successive characteristics and exploration,
discovery and accomplishments of material aspect
realizes from study of successive quantities.
Mutually disciplined planetary bodies is known as
universe, in which there are many solar systems.
Mathematical laws are for study of action, reaction
and their result; qualitative laws are for study of
advancement and deterioration; causal laws are
for study, intuition and realization of entire nature
in absolute energy.
Omnipresence cannot be without absoluteness,
because relativitiy is only with limits.
Realization in coexistence itself is understanding;
understanding itself is evidence of knowledge,
wisdom and science; knowledge itself is law; law
itself is restraint; restraint itself is balance;
balanced living itself is justice in humankind;
living with justice in universal orderliness itself is
religion or resolution; realization in coexistence
itself is religion and truth. The expression of
knowledge as law is eternally present in the
The grandeur of restraint is the Omnipresence and
restrained are many.
That which is restrained is unit, which is unit in
its natural state of being.
Activities are countless and entire activities are
saturated and restrained in the Omnipotence,
from which every unit is forceful, which means every unit has force immanent in Omnipotence
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
That which is forceful itself is unit; unit itself is
pulsation; pulsation itself is activity; (more than
one) activity itself is plurality; plurality (in
coexistence) itself is wholeness; wholeness itself
complementariness itself is (realization of)
restraint; restraint itself is (realization of)
deterioration and advancement itself is evident as
evolution stages; progressed evolution stage
(constitutional-completeness) itself is expression
of consciousness; expression of consciousness
through brain); vibration itself is intelligence;
intelligence itself is manifested as perception of
truth; perception of truth itself is manifested as
sense of truth; sense of truth itself is the basis of
imparting study; study itself is in the form of
science and wisdom; science and wisdom itself is
holistic view (darshan); holistic view (darshan)
resolution; resolution itself is bliss; bliss itself is
completeness; completeness itself is awakening;
complete awakening itself is effortlessness; and
the unit established in effortlessness itself is
completely forceful.
Every human being is found to be in a state of
unrest until he becomes realized in the immanent
force.
There is no balanced unit without a constitution.
Every constitution necessarily has many parts or
Every atom is a stage towards progress
The nucleus of every atom in a stage of evolution
is known as atma, which is more forceful than
other particles due to its being central. Nucleus is
the activity of centeredness, while all dependent
particles are as attraction or repulsion activities.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Human being has the opportunity of attaining
complete plane or complete awakening or
complete effortlessness and its continuity. All
human endeavours are towards this only.
An unit of knowledge order liberated from
delusion is known as completely awakened, a unit
in discerning status is very close to realization of
complete awakening and is closer to complete
awakening compared to those in delusion.
The disparities in appearance, physical strength,
intellect and wealth itself has given rise to
competition, greed, aspiration, enthusiasm, study,
exploration, experimentation, occupation in
humankind and also it has given rise to jealousy,
hatred, terror, violence, deceit, cheating, fraud
and charlatanism, which has resulted in
advancement or deterioration of human being.
Victory over antagonism or dissolution of
antagonism is in coexistence, dissolution of
results in naturalness in living, naturalness in
living results in heavenliness, heavenliness results
in realization in coexistence, realization results in
commitment towards duties, commitment
towards duties results in success, success results
in science and wisdom, science and wisdom results
in spontaneous living and spontaneous living
alone results in realization of coexistence.
Spontaneous living is indicative of humanness,
which is realization of independence in living.
Coexistence itself is liberation from antagonisms,
liberation from antagonisms itself is dissolution
of antagonism and dissolution of antagonism itself
is coexistence.
Ignorance, death, darkness and delusion are four
kinds of beliefs in human-thinking. Though these
are believed, but their existence is not proven.
The root cause of (beliefs of) death, darkness and
delusion also is ignorance itself.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-12
Lack of potential in oneself for understanding
dissolution of body itself is death, the shade that
falls on the other side of an object where light falls
is known as darkness.
Non-secrecy and non-mysteriousness itself is
actuality, from which alone naturalness is
accomplished.
Secrecy gives rise to narrow mindedness and
mysteriousness gives rise to delusion.
Imagining forms and characteristics of ignorance,
Human beings move towards decline from
which all inhuman characteristics like
antagonisms, revolts, terror etc get affected.
In comparison with the physical strength,
intellect, appearance, social rank and wealth of
strength, intellect, appearance, social rank and
A human being upon becoming caught up in
conceit gets inclined for exploitation of many
through blaming, counter-blaming, terrorizing
and dividing. Also, after becoming liberated from
that conceit one is found to have tendency of
nurturing many through wisdom, science,
nurturing happens as well.
Exploitation accomplishes struggle and nurturing
accomplishes peace.
Culture, Civilization, Norms and Orderliness these four constitute man-made environment,
from which humanness is either nurtured or
exploited.
The way of resolution gets coherence in behaviour
and thoughts and it is the essence of nurturing
undivided-ness and universalness. Exploitation
has to be there in injustice.
The opportunities of awakening are same for all
human beings. The good-use and misuse of these
opportunities depends on environment, study and
Human made environment that establishes
understanding (as alternative), resolution in
thoughts and material prosperity itself paves the
The result of activities performed prior to present
inhumanness, humanness and super-humanness.
The potential, ability and receptivity on the basis
of alternative-knowledge itself are righteous
impressions. All activities contrary to righteous
impressions are inhumanness.
Chapter-12
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-13
Chapter-13
Humanness, godly humanness, divine humanness
are the only bases for happiness, peace,
contentment and bliss for humankind. Happiness
is the existential purpose of every level of human
existence, which means, happiness is the purpose
of inhumanness, humanness and superhumanness also.
Humankind in delusion wishes to become happy
through profit.
Understanding gets manifested as Resolution,
Resolution gets manifested as Good-use, Good-use
gets manifested as Capability, Capability gets
Resolution-ProsperityFearlessness-Coexistence and ResolutionProsperity-Fearlessness-Coexistence
manifested as Understanding.
No one can become happy from earning through
The one who exploits necessarily becomes
drained, because every action has equal reaction.
Rightful spending itself is the purpose of earning
and wrongful spending itself is losing. Therefore
a human being is successful and happy only from
rightful spending, otherwise he is unsuccessful
and miserable.
Body is used and wealth is earned and spent for
mind (conscious aspect).
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-13
Human being, family, society, nation and world
are successively interdependent. All human
beings have the opportunity of studying and
following this interdependence.
Human being, family, society, nation and world
become successful only from availing the
opportunity of studying and following the
necessary laws (of humanness), otherwise these
Complete study of behaviour aspect of humanness
is the formula of realizing coherence in
Until (evolution of) humankind there is no unit
which does not have intent of goodness, or which
is not complimentary and of use for some other
unit. Therefore entire activities of nature prove
to be mutually complimentary and useful. Only
thoughts become independent upon becoming
rooted in Truth. Independent thoughts also prove
to be mutually complimentary and useful.
Mutual complementariness and usefulness itself
is coherence in behaviour in humankind.
Coherence results in movement towards success;
otherwise there is movement towards failure.
Coexistence has no antagonism, but there is a
coherence. Therefore coexistence is the purpose
of behaviour in humankind.
Thoughts of religion and behaviour of justice only
have the possibility of achieving realization in
The tendency and endeavour for advancing more
tendency and endeavour for achieving more
Competition gives rise to agitation and hatred.
Jealousy gives rise to animosity.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-13
completeness arises in humankind then all
jealousies and hatreds start dissolving. Upon
attaining complete awakening one becomes
liberated from all jealousies, hatreds and entire
delusions. In the light of coexistence the
meaninglessness of competition becomes clear in,
from and for self.
light of awakening and its realization. It is commonly
believed that competition leads to advancement and
awakening, while in the inquiry and commitment towards
awakening in human being and tradition of humanness,
which is achieved in the form of undivided society.
Hoarding gives rise to greed, hatred gives rise to
conceit gives rise to disruptiveness and fear gives
rise to terror. These are conflicts in thoughts.
destruction itself is hatred.
One who himself lives in conflict is bound to give
conflicts to others, because it is the law that one
distributes only what one has.
As resolution of above five gross tendencies there
fearlessness. The impetus of these tendencies is
as generosity, unopposedness, knowledge of
whereby the continuity of cheerfulness,
sprightliness and joyousness is achieved. This is
the status which humankind has always been
waiting for.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-13
Realization based understanding (conviction)
affects desires, desires affect thoughts, thoughts
affect wants, wants affect impetus, impetus affects
activities (work and behaviour), activities affect
study and study affects understanding. This is the
cycle of desire and activities in human living.
Hoarding can only be of money, which is a symbol.
The objects are with distinction of production and
Collection (sampadan): - Accomplishment of objects from
natural abundance is known as collection.
Production (utpadan): - Giving the desired form to the
collected objects itself is known as production.
It is not possible to accumulate material objects
indefinitely, because their use or transformation
is inevitable.
Believing oneself to be superior than others is the basis of
hatred; believing other to be weaker than oneself is the
excellence replaces hatred with generosity, endeavours for
becoming awakened like other itself is meaningfulcompetition and protecting the weak ones too is kindness.
Violence is at the levels of individual, family,
society, community, caste, opinion, sect, language
and nation state, which gets manifested as struggle
and counter struggle.
Violence necessarily results in counter violence,
struggle necessarily results in counter struggle
and crime necessarily results in counter crime.
Therefore hatred has never been helpful for
Un-wisdom (avidya) or Ignorance (agyan): - The lack of
awakening for understanding form, characteristics, innatenature and religion of realities as they are, itself is known
as unwisdom or ignorance.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
physical strength, intellect, appearance, social rank and
wealth to be worthy and those of othersto be unworthy
itself is known as conceit.
Each unit is a part in entireness.
of reputation and fear of wealth. The body, rank,
reputation and wealth are not without
replacement and change.
Fear of life (pran-bhaya): - Imagining that body will not
to be permanent itself is a problem, because loss of life,
fall or loss of rank, loss of fame and spending of wealth is
Therefore, the ultimate accomplishment for
human being is evidence of humanness, from
which human being attains happiness.
Chapter-13
Chapter-14
The Laws of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Human being is naturally inclined for behaviour.
Conscious aspect is necessarily there in entire
behaviour of a human being in waking, dreaming,
Awakened human being is the one who along with
acceptance of wants, thoughts, desires,
understanding and authenticity, produces
evidences of these five activities in his living.
The causes of advancement and awakening in
jeevan (conscious aspect) are its impressions,
characteristics and innate-nature.
Impressions are from study, behaviour and
Study is of material and conscious nature and of
the Omnipresence and it happens by way of
knowledge, wisdom and science only.
Study of wisdom results in understanding of
immortality of self, mortality of body and laws of
behaviour and along with this existential purpose
of human being and jeevan values become clear.
From this understanding the impressions become
more and more refined.
The laws of behaviour are for the purpose of
conserving humanness.
The aim of conservation of humanness gets manifested in
perspectives, pursuits, tendencies, characteristics, innatenature and behaviour of humanness. The aim of
conservation of humanness is achieved from spreading,
exhibiting, inspiring, encouraging social activities of
humanness and ethical orderliness by such human beings
who are equipped with behaviour of humanness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
The means for outward behaviour of human
beings are cultural (other human beings) or
natural (nature other than human beings).
Impressons and culture are as prior form (as state
Culture of humanness gets manifested as
appearance, physical strength, wealth, rank and
evidence of realization in human beings.
Natural means are as many kinds of minerals,
vegetations and living beings other than humans.
Human being is a unit in evolution stage of
awakening advancement or awakening, therefore
human beings have the possibility of making gooduse and protection of natural abundance (in
awakening stage) and of misusing these due to
a more evolved status can make use, good-use and
achieve purposefulness of unevolved statuses and
also the possibility of misuse remains due to
delusion. Among these, human being becomes
happy only from use and good-use.
The good-use and misuse of natural abundance
results in climatic balance or imbalance.
The measure of climate - heat, cold and rains - on
any land depends on proportion of minerals and
vegetations on that land, which is determined
mathematically from examining and surveying.
Societal balance or imbalance is achieved from
righteous or unrighteous wealth, righteous or
unrighteous marital relationship, behaviour with
thoughts of kindness or hatred.
Righteous wealth (sva-dhan): - Wealth obtained as a result
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
- In accordance with geographical conditions,
determination of marriage partner with social acceptance
Kindness (daya): - Being helpful for advancement of others
as much as possible and not interfering in their
is known as hatred.
Human being obtains his capabilities for fulfilling
his duties with distinction of birth rights, awarded
rights and situational rights.
Birth rights are towards relationships, awarded
rights are in the purview of orderliness and
situational rights are towards associations.
Relationships are in the form of mother-father,
son-daughter, brother-sister, husband-wife,
colleague-assistant, teacher-disciple and friend.
Awarded rights are with distinction of their being
given from family, society and orderliness.
Situational rights are manifested in behaviour
according to time and conditions of the meeting.
The rights awarded by family are based on their
aims, i.e. adherence of duties and responsibilities,
conservation of character, nourishment of body
and wealth generation.
The rights given by society are with distinction of
adherence of duties towards society, graceful
personality, spreading of meaningful literature
and researching principles.
The rights given by orderliness depend on
adherence of duties towards orderliness, study of
principles specified in scriptures for proficiency
in skills, behaviour and knowledge, completeness
in practices of behaviour and work and
authoritative personality from which there is
success, otherwise there is failure.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
humankind. It is in expectation of happiness, the
The realization of happiness or misery depends on
the norms of behaviour at the levels of individual,
family, society, nation and inter-nation.
The six perspectives from which humankind
achieves norms of behaviour have been described
earlier. Among those, only the behaviour from
perspective of humanness achieves happiness for
Since human being in delusion is free while
performing actions and is bound while enjoying
results of those actions, he works and behaves with
fear and greed from inhuman perspective; as a
result he suffers and blocks his own awakening.
Human being in this Cosmic order is the most
evolved, is in the awakening progression and is
worthy of realizing awakening. It is for this
reason, human being incorporates characteristics,
innate-nature and religion of material order,
pranic order and animal order.
Human being has wished for becoming happy
through intellectual resolution and material
prosperity.
Material prosperity is possible only from study of
laws of Science and their practice in work
accordingly and intellectual resolution is only
possible from laws of Wisdom and living with
restraint accordingly.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Healthy body also has an important role for
healthy behaviour, which is possible only from
disciplined control of breathing.
Nutrition results in nourishment of body,
occupation results in prosperity, living with
understanding results in holistic view (darshan)
of material aspects, behavioural understanding
results in holistic view of society, understanding
of economics results in holistic view of orderliness
and complete resolution results in realization in
the Omnipresence and holistic view (darshan).
Pran is a specific kind of air from which heart gets
inspiration for its activity. Air is a quantity of
matter of more than one kind of gaseous materials
in a state of harmony and with wave motion arising
from their coexistence. Air is of five kinds: - (1)
Pran air is nourishing for body and pranic cells
with inspiration, apaan air is unnecessary and
debilitating, vyaan air is useful for body, udaan
strength of body. The balance of these five kinds
habits, ethics, customs and conditions of food,
Nutrition is in the form of food and medicine.
Food (ahar): - That which has substance that are worthy
Medicine (aushadhi): - The substance that is used for
eradication (cure) of bodily or mental deformity (illness)
Nutrition (anna): - Substance that is used for bodily
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Duties are with distinction of desired, inspired and
informed.
Deterministic reflection, contemplation, thinking,
physical and mental perseverance to attain
completeness in a definite action.
Commitment only results in accomplishments of
the objects of common aspiration and higher
aspiration. Commitment only results in
accomplishment of resolution and realization in
a human being. The objects of common aspiration
and higher aspiration alone are known as wealth.
Wealth belongs to society. Wealth is material
aspect only and it is for material aspect (body)
only. Resolution and realization are of and for
conscious aspect only.
objects are of common aspirations and higher aspirations
only. These objects constitute the entire substance for
realizing use, good-use and purposefulness by humankind.
Use of these objects happens in mutualities of humankind.
Unless there are more than one human being there is no
mutuality. This mutuality itself is in the form of family
and society. This itself extends to become undivided
society, wherein entire humankind is one unit. In this way,
a family is recognized as a part of undivided society and
an individual is recognized as a part of a family. For any
individual is needed. In this way entire wealth is in, from
and for society. It is only due to delusion human being
imagines and tries seeking happiness in divisive and
individualistic ideas. These ideas could not serve human
purpose. Every discerning person can survey this.
Flaw (vikaar): - Excited motion.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Deformation (vipaak): - The result of excited motion.
Impression (vyanjana): - Becoming influenced.
The conclusion obtained from observing causality
(answer of why), characteristics (answer of how)
and quantity (answer of how much) is known as
principle only.
Time, distance and formation is measured
mathematically.
Attraction, repulsion and centeredness are the
distinctions of characteristics.
Time (kaal): - Duration of activity is known as time.
Distance (vistar): - Expanse of a formation is known as
Formation (rachna): - Expanse of matter is known as
Attraction (sam): - The growth oriented characteristics are
Repulsion (visham): - The decay oriented characteristics
Centeredness (madhyasth): - The characteristics which
achieve continuity or permanence of being are known as
centeredness.
The attraction, repulsion and centeredness characteristics
The Omnipotence in the form of immanent energy
for continuous activity found in atoms is known
as the absolute cause. Absolute Omnipotence
means, for which there is no cause of origination
and which is in eternal state of being.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
The specific-effect - as action, reaction and
maturation - from mutual complementariness in
Bodies composed of many atoms and molecules
and the atomic and molecular activity is known as
Subtle motions and activities are with distinction
of motion, vibration and waves.
The increase in vibration activity in atomic unit
itself is the event of advancement and its opposite
(decrease in vibration activity) is the event of
The higher degree of vibration in conscious unit
itself is its speciality (compared to material
or non-delusion statuses based on the extent of its
transparency in knowledge.
Absence of darkness is from transparency, partial
absence of darkness is from translucence and
darkness is from opaqueness of materialsubstance. Darkness essentially is shadow.
As a result of becoming transparent in knowledge,
from which holistic view (darshan) of actuality
takes place and immanence of knowledge gets
perceived everywhere. This limit of evolution and
Since deluded conscious unit is translucent in
knowledge, it does not have complete absence of
some times and some times one begins to
understand realities with flaws of over-valuation,
under-valuation or un-valuation. This itself is the
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Upon achieving Realization, the status of
wealth and progeny.
Chapter-14
in knowledge, ignorance remains in the form of
helplessness, or one has acceptances only with
Over-valuation (ativyapti): - Understanding something to
be more than what that really is.
Un-valuation (avyapti): - Understanding something to be
different from what that really is.
Under-valuation (anavyapti): - Understanding something
to be less than what that really is.
The completeness of awakening is achieved only
from transparency in realities. This awakening for
human being is achieved from becoming realized
in the transparency of knowledge.
The activities of nature are perceivable with
distinction of coherence and incoherence of shape,
kind, inhaling, exhaling, experiencing and
producing.
The combined activity of idea and imagination in
includes attraction and repulsion.
The vibration in material or conscious atoms is
from attraction and repulsion. The attraction in
material nature is seen in the form of atomic
constitution and molecular formation. In deluded
conscious nature the attraction is in the form of
greed and repulsion is in the form of fear. In
awakened jeevan, attraction is for resolution and
repulsion is with problem. Along with attraction
and repulsion jeevan is with continuous presence
of vibrational motion. The vibrational motion in
jeevan atom is evidenced in the form of five
inexhaustible strengths and forces.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
The revolution motion in atoms is from attraction
and repulsion. There is continuous revolution
motion in orbits of material and conscious atoms.
Only rotational motion is there in nucleus.
The exposition of knowledge through sensory
organs is from pulse given by vibration of jeevan
on brain.
The pulse given from vibration of jeevan causes
expression of sensitivity and cognition in human
behaviour.
The impetus is from combined pulse (imperative
impact) of pran and mun in the form of
impetus is as pulse of pran air from the effect of
mun, from which the sensory recognition or
sensory activities take place.
It is mun (jeevan) that accepts or recognizes every
material activity (of body), the imperative
response to which in the form of accomplishments
of happiness and misery.
The creations in the form of production are from
ideas of awakened human being, from creations
are objects of human use, from objects of human
use is evidence of proficience in skill and
behaviour, from proficiency in skill and behaviour
is impetus, from impetus is the resolution, from
favourable situations is the all-round resolution,
from all-round resolution is the union, from union
is happiness, peace and contentment; from
happiness, peace and contentment itself is
An awakened human being produces evidences of
his awakening in the above described order.
Creation (kruti): - The action performed in accordance to
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Object (akruti): - The composed form of many groups of
atoms and molecules as a result of action itself is known
The work done according to thoughts of humanness and
and the work done according to thoughts of inhumanness
Attachment (asakti): - The attraction for activities of
Impetus (samveg): - The longing towards awakening is
Favourable situation (paristhiti): - The mental and bodily
Union (yog): - That which is absent in self or which is
perceived to be absent in self, while other has plenty of
Delight (rati): - The strong speed of attraction and counterattraction of centering-force upon coming together of the
Delightedness (ratyatmak rati): - The delightedness is
from continuity of delight.
Separation (viyog): - The break in delight is known as
Idea-form (manakruti): - The imagination with knowledge
In the absence of thoughts the delight does not get
realized.
The delight with material nature is momentary,
the delight of thoughts is long lasting and delight
continuity of realization.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Soil, stones, gems and metals and their kinds are
vritti, chitta and buddhi with potential found in
human being for holistic view (darshan) of nature
The appraisal of values is a conscious activity.
Appraisal is either realistic or unrealistic, which
depends on the awakening or delusion of the one
who is doing appraisal.
Correct appraisal happens only with complete
understanding or complete awakening; otherwise
there is either under-valuation or over-valuation.
Human being does appraisal based on his level of
The level of awakening of a human self is
determined only on the basis of attachment or
detachment that one has with aspects related with
heart (health) and five sense organs. Awakening
is evidenced from combined activities of mun,
concerns for heart; the happiness that is sensed
from taste obtained from the five sense-organs
(hearing, touch, sight, taste and smell) is of mun;
the conclusion from evaluation based on
perspectives of justice-injustice, religiousirreligious, truth-untruth is of vritti; the direct
perception of justice, religion and truth is of
chitta; bodh (understanding) of existence in the
form of coexistence is of buddhi and realization
in coexistence is of atma.
Every activity of body and entire human behaviour
has to involve the conscious aspect, for which the
five sense organs are the means.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Humankind has tried to achieve success from
selfish, altruistic or holistic ways.
The object of pran is heart, the object of heart is
sense-organs and the object of sense-organs is
behaviour (action) and enjoyment. Pran inspires
heart, heart inspires sense-organs and senseorgans inspire behaviour and enjoyment.
Body, heart and respiration system is known as
When the activity of understanding of buddhi
becomes aligned with atma, it causes Awakening.
Disorientation of buddhi from atma, due to
delusion, remains the cause of problems. This
itself is known as awakening and delusion.
Remaining deprived from receiving signals of
The desires are according to causal body and
subtle body. Causal activity and subtle activity are
inseparable and the behaviour is according to
subtle and gross body.
The gross body joins subtle body through pran.
The subtle body joins causal body through chitta.
In awakened jeevan atma is continuously
inundated in knowledge.
Struggle in humankind is due to sensory passions
in the form of delusion. Human living in the
purview of three-motives the progeny and wealth
motives are evidenced with tendency in
orderliness. Realization of orderliness, as
evidence of advancement and awakening, requires
study and experimentation.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Delusion is at the root of jealousy and hatred,
which is a movement towards deterioration.
Deployment of means of living for narrow ends
itself is selfishness, the deployment of means of
living for vastness itself is altruistic and
deployment of means of living for universality is
known as holistic.
The achievements in humankind are with
distinction of physical strength, wealth, social
rank and fame. The study is with distinction of
Science and Wisdom, which is an activity of
buddhi. The body form is there from birth.
Social rank is awarded by society with distinction
of worthy or unworthy.
The deployment of physical strength is with
distinction of struggle and production.
The delployment of means (body, mind and
wealth) is with distinction of use, good-use and
Entire behaviours and actions from one to all
human beings accomplish either problem or
Heart is eager, anticipating, aspiring and awaiting
for sensory fulfillment; Pran aspires forcefulness;
Chitta aspires contentment; Buddhi aspires bliss;
Atma aspires supreme-bliss of realization.
understanding, atma attains complete realization.
As a result, manifestation of realization naturally
follows.
Atma (self) is complete, centered and eternally
peaceful, therefore excesses of attraction or
repulsion do not affect it.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Omnipotence is continually available and always
immanent in the same way to atma (self) also, in
which it has the potential of realization. Atma
does not have flaws or activities of attraction and
repulsion. Flaws, discords and comparative
measures are found only in the forces of attraction
and repulsion.
Human tendencies are distincted as effect of priorconformance (effect of atma and buddhi) and
post-conformance (effect of attachment to
material nature) and their results are according
to that.
The understanding achieved from existential
Prior and Post conformance (poorvapar): - Postconformance means being rooted in body (as delusion),
prior-conformance means being rooted in realization or
conforming to atma (as awakening).
Existential progression (anukram): - The complete cycle
(inter-linkages) of activities of nature is known as
The inspiration obtained from prior to mun, i.e.
from vritti, chitta, buddhi and atma is known as
prior-conformance and post-conformance (as
attachment) alone is the classification of
humanness and inhumanness in human
behaviour.
When mun is stressed from pran, heart, body and
results in choices accordingly.
Chapter-14
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Mun joins pran and is occupied in giving a sense
of strength, pran joins heart and is occupied in
giving a sense of contentment, heart joins body and
Therefore, human being has experienced effort
and preoccupation in the limits of the activities
described here.
In the state of discipline of prior-conformance,
coherence of mun and vritti results in realization
of happiness. Coherence of vritti and chitta
results in realization of peace, coherence of chitta
and buddhi results in realization of contentment
and coherence of buddhi and atma results in
realization of bliss. The realization of happiness,
peace, contentment and bliss itself is mental wellbeing.
The realization of ideas with mental well-being is
found to be meaningful and purposeful. Therefore
- the distinction in ideas determines tendency,
non-delusion stage, distinction in delusion or nondelusion stage determines aims of human being,
distinction in aims determines manner of
restraint, distinction in manner of restraint
determines ethics of society, distinction in ethics
of society determines commitment in individuals,
distinction in commitment in an individual
determines his intent and distinction in intents of
human beings is the basis of realizing ideas.
The incompleteness in knowing an activity
(nature) itself is mysteriousness.
The eradication of mysteriousness is only from
holistic view (darshan) of actuality.
Holistic view (darshan) of reality gets
tendency of indefiniteness.
Chapter-14
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
The thoughts aligned with Wisdom and Science
and complete knowledge of activity (nature) itself
is knowledge of reality.
Complete knowledge (paripoorna gyan): - The
understanding of law and procedure of material-activities
and understanding of cause and law of thoughts
It is from study of Wisdom and Science based on
knowledge of coexistence that undivided society
and universal orderliness is evidenced.
Maturation (paripak): - The net outcome or result of
numerous procedures performed for some event itself is
The events found in material nature, vegetations,
animals and human beings are respectively as
constitution caused, climate caused, instinct
caused and motives caused.
Relativity is from distinction of perspective,
observable reality and view (understanding).
Seer, mahat-tatv, purusha, central, self-form,
adhishthan, complete, sahaja, omniscient, atma
or indicate only one reality and that is nucleus of
conscious atom (jeevan).
Nature itself has tendencies of maturation for
material, vegetations, inspiration of sensitivity
and cognition, imagination, action-reaction,
effect, impression, revolution and as resolution.
Entire material nature is occupied in events cycle
of constitution, entire vegetation nature are
occupied in events cycle of climate, entire animal
nature is occupied in events cycle of instinctual
acts and entire human beings are occupied in
events cycle of impressions.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-14
Counter revolution results in delusion and
The activity of centeredness, only due to its being
in the center (nucleus), achieves the touch of
knowledge in the form of all-round resolution, or
its effect is as all-round resolution. It is for this
reason only, that realization happens in nucleus,
which is the activity of centeredness. Along with
this, since buddhi, chitta, vritti and mun are
effort. This is the reason, all these are in the form
of attraction or repulsion activities. The
centeredness of atma gets manifested only from
coherence in behaviour and thoughts.
The ordained tendencies give rise to resolution
and unordained tendencies give rise to problem.
Wisdom and Science. Thoughts of discord (struggle) is
problem, which itself is friction. Friction means either
becoming perturbed from effect of others or making others
The enhancement in appearance, physical
strength and intellect is from restraint in food,
The experiences with material nature
The perspectives that change are known as
perspectives of pleasant-unpleasant, healthyunhealthy and profit-loss. The perspectives which
These are the perspectives of justice, religion and
truth. The friction from transient perspectives is
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The art that can denote Truth is known as
The success and well being of social rank is from
justice, of wealth is from generosity, of physical
strength is from kindness, of body is from
righteous character, of intellect is from Science
and Wisdom, of study is from commitment, of
serving others (seva) is from dutifulness, of
penance is from contentment, of worldly relations
is from affection, of realization is from love, of sick
and child is from obedience.
Chapter-14
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Justice in Humankind
Chapter-15
Human communities live with tendencies of
justice and opportunism.
Refuge (ashraya): - That from which its existence or
The law by which one who seeks refuge achieves
Human beings who live in the refuge of justice only
are the knowers of truth-untruth, religiousirreligious and justice-injustice, they have
proficiency in instilling harmony in behaviour
situations and they live flawless lives, from which
itself the humanness is conserved.
Opportunist human beings are afflicted with
perspectives of pleasant-unpleasant, healthyunhealthy, profit-loss and their behaviour is
indefiniteness is achieved, because beliefs of
ignorance keep changing frequently. The aim of
actions of an opportunist human being is also
happiness, but he does not become successful by
this method.
All tendencies which give rise to conflicts, fights
and terror in the living of individual, family,
actions and thoughts which give rise to joy,
The causes of conflicts, fights and terror are
hoarding, hatred, ignorance, conceit and fear only.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Opportunistic thoughts or flawed thoughts are
mutually conflicting among behaviour, heart,
pran, mun, vritti, chitta and buddhi - from which
there is suffering of friction, depression,
Friction is from discord in behaviour and heart,
sorrow is from discord in heart and pran,
unfulfillment is from discord in pran and mun,
misery is from discord in mun and vritti, unrest is
from discord in chitta and buddhi and suffering
Human behaviour is in the refuge of body, heart,
pran and mun. As a result, the state of mind (mun)
gets affected from pran, heart and action in that
order. Mun itself signals brain according to its
want and anticipates to experience happiness in
The effect of behaviour and heart, heart and pran,
pran and mun, vritti (thoughts) and mun and
conflict and harmony is on mun only, because only
mun is the conscious activity that experiences
taste. As a result, mun itself is the one who
experiences misery or happiness obtained from
conflict or harmony in behaviour, heart, pran,
Awakening (therefore prosperity and resolution)
is from subtle activity being in accordance with
causal activity and gross behaviour being in
accordance with subtle activity. When this order
is reversed (subtle being according to gross) there
is deterioration and as a result there are problems
and lack of prosperity.
Causal activity (karan kriya): - The combined activity of
Chapter-15
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Subtle activity (sukshm kriya): - The combined activity of
Gross body (sthool shareer pind): - Composition with five
sense-organs is known as gross-body.
In the absence of causal activity there is no subtle
activity and in the absence of causal and subtle
activity there is no functioning of gross body.
Opportunist behaviour lacks coherence because of
its frequently changing nature. In the absence of
atma there is unfulfillment in buddhi, from
follower of chitta there is unrest in vritti, from
mun not being a follower of vritti there is friction
in mun. When pran, heart, body and actions with
body are not according to mun - there is friction
Human being with unfulfilled buddhi (incomplete
own knowledge to be superior, human being with
discontented chitta believes his logic or reasoning
to be superior and human being with perturbed
vritti believes his ideas and plans to be superior.
This gives rise to argumement. Therefore it is
established that only opportunism is the root
cause of argument.
For an argument both sides or at least one side has
to be wrong (in delusion), because argument is not
possible when both sides are right.
The root cause of opportunist behaviour is
incomplete evolution of buddhi or vigyan-maya
It is because of having freedom while performing actions
(free-will) that human beings have the opportunity of
realizing behaviour with thoughts, desires and convictions
of justice-injustice, religious-irreligious and truth-untruth.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The seeding (for continuity of tradition of its kind) in
material nature is with distinctions of constitution (in
material order) and pran (as formation method in pranic
order). The seeding in conscious nature (jeevan) is as
distinctions of want-to-be-alive as specie conformance (in
animals) and as conformance to impressions (in humans).
human beings. The differences in intellectual levels itself
is the root cause of variation in a human expressions. It is
because of variation in intellectual levels that human being
accepts behaviour of justice or opportunism according to
his level of awakening.
Seed upon having grown has movement towards
decay and formation of new seed. After decay or
formation of new seed has movement towards
The realization rooted impressions in buddhi get
manifested in thoughts and then actions.
Thoughts obtained from these actions again get
established as impression with inference.
Impression itself is innateness.
The innateness of entire humankind is only
anticipation of effortlessness.
The understanding worthy of effortlessness is only
from behaviour of justice, from thoughts of
religion and from realization in truth.
Religion and Justice are in the refuge of Truth
Entire activities and behaviour of humans (as
individual, family, society, nation and world) in
refuge of justice results in fortunate outcomes and
these outcomes multiply, from which resolution
and coexistence gets evidenced in human
tradition.
Chapter-15
Humanness and super humanness is evident in a
society with behaviour in the refuge of justice.
Its opposite, from opportunist behaviour there is
suffering from delusion and ignorance, which
gives rise to inhumanness.
Advancement from lower value to higher value is
higher value to lower value is known as
The classification of social living from the
reference of humanness in behaviour (as
perspective, characteristics and concerns) is as
follows: (1)
Inhumanness.
Chapter-15
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The one with perspective, characteristics and concerns that
one with perspective, characteristics and concerns that
nurture super humanness is in one of the two categories: (1) dev manav and (2) divya manav. The ones with
perspective, characteristics and concerns that nurture
is completely awakened and pashu manav and
Human being appraises high or low with
distinction of nurturing and exploitation, which
gets reflected in the form of advancement and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
The efforts of overruling by attack of lower value
over higher value, of narrowness over vastness, of
smallness over bigness, of meek over mighty, of
incapable over capable, of unworthy over worthy
Accordingly
opportunism is not successful and proven over
judiciousness, nor would ever be.
successful only from behaviour of humanness,
otherwise it is unsuccessful.
with society, a society with nation and a nation
with world evidences justice in its behaviour. The
experience of heavenliness by the process of
following larger constitution is in awakened
human tradition only. When the sequence
described here is reversed it is hellishness. This
is also established because it is not possible to
include higher value into lower value.
Adherence to the process and ethics worthy for
human beings is known as righteous conduct and
adherence to laws that are unworthy for human
beings is known as unrighteous conduct.
Law itself is Justice, Justice itself is Knowledge,
Knowledge itself is Science and Wisdom, Science
and Wisdom itself is Resolution and Resolution
itself is Eternal happiness. Resolution itself is
Restraint and Restraint itself is Law.
Appearance, physical strength and intelligence
belong to individual. Success with them is only
from their good-use, which is only possible from
adherence to laws of society and laws of
understanding. These laws are as follows: -
The harmony in behaviour in the aspect of appearance is
with righteous character, of physical strength is with
kindness and of intellect is with science and wisdom. This
itself is law and justice.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Above behaviour is successful only when it is in
the refuge of justice, otherwise there is
opportunism, which is the cause of antagonism.
Progeny, wealth and fame belong to family and
undivided society. It is from custom and ethics of
fulfilling of relationships with justice,
methodically
experimentation and inventions for exploration or
realization of universal human purpose that their
good-use is evidenced and success is achieved, i.e.
the progeny, wealth and fame should be devoted
for the prosperity of undivided society and not for
individual ends. In this way, only from behaviour
of justice - the development of feelings of mutual
assistance, cooperation and coexistence in a
family is possible, from which the trust gets
strengthened among the family members. In this
way the mindset of opportunism gets eradicated.
Behaviour of justice shows the way for realizing
ethics at the level of society and inspires for
resolution in thoughts. Study worthy of
expositions the ethics of conservation and gooduse of means of living. Teaching that instills
understanding of humanness and superhumanness, practice of resolution and prosperity
that is worthy of realization in Truth and
development of commitment for following its
Tradition paves the way for success of socially
harmonious living.
The possibilities are more for individuals getting
inspiration for their advancement from successful
social living and such social order. It is only
natural for lower value to get attracted towards
higher value and the environment, possibilities
and means are always available in a righteous
society for turning towards progress.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Justice itself is Provision; Provision itself is
Wisdom and Science; Knowledge, Wisdom and
Science itself is Law; Law itself is Restraint and
Restraint itself is Justice.
The roles of Coordinator, Legislator, Scholar,
Thinker and Propagator are indispensible for
giving inspiration for Justice, Provision,
Orderliness, Knowledge and Law.
Coordinator (vyavasthapak): - The person who has
complete understanding of norms and provisions and who
adheres to ethical conduct and who can reform those with
unethical conduct by his understanding is coordinator.
Legislator (vidhayak): - The person who has complete
understanding of norms and provisions and who
determines the clear norms according to present
conditions is legislator.
Scholar (vidvan): - The person with conduct of humanness,
who imparts understanding of resolution in the form of
non-delusion, which is capable of removing discords
Thinker (vicharak): - The person with conduct of
humanness, who presents resolution which is capable of
removing discords among human-relationships is known
as thinker.
Propagator (pracharak): - The person who evokes trust
in public-mindset for living with ethics, character and
Public (praja): - Every human being who adheres to
conduct of humanness with law is known as public.
Only thinkers and scholars can be propagators.
Rule and Ruler are the productions of deluded
mindset. A ruler can not be a thinker. Thinker
always nurtures orderliness. Ruler always
exploits orderliness. Therefore a thinker cannot
be a ruler and a ruler cannot be a thinker.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
When a person attains the potential, ability and
receptivity worthy of living with resolution in
holistic orderliness or towards undivided society
and universal orderliness, then he becomes with
resolution of all problems in behaviour and this
accomplishment itself is his contentment. In such
a person the friction disappears. This itself is the
Resolution itself is the meaning of accepting behaviour of
justice. Resolution remains merged in behaviour of justice.
Entire activities performed by a human being are rooted
harmony in thoughts that one becomes able to evidence
actions. It is from discipline in thoughts alone there is
justice in behaviour. It is from justice in behaviour alone
there is harmony in thoughts. It is from harmony in
thoughts that reality can be adequately expressed in
language. The study of actuality itself gets resolution in
thoughts and realization in truth itself is bliss, which the
ultimate of success.
Entire human occupations are only in expectation
of prosperity. Entire human behaviour is only
from the root intent of nurturing justice in human
society. Entire propagation in language of
humanness is only with the wish of advancement
and all-round resolution for human being. Human
being has studied and become realized from the
aspiration of achieving effortlessness.
Effortlessness itself is resolution.
The acts and tendency of consuming more than
production proves to be exploitative for society
and this results only from opportunism. The
behaviour of justice evidences more production
than needs and it nurtures justice in society.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
The opportunist behaviour has to include
marital relationship and inflicting of suffering to
propogation, expression and exhibition becomes
imperative, whereby only delusion and
luxuriousness gets spread, which has kept
humankind unbalanced, distraught and stricken.
Human being is born with capability of doing
wrong and with opportunity and means of doing
right.
According to above, the role of education and
orderliness is necessary for orienting human
in justice and for making justice his innate-nature.
Delusion only is the cause of attachment in
opportunism. Delusion is an imposition only.
Non-delusion is opposite of delusion. Nondelusion itself is the cause of justice. Non-delusion
results in resolution, mental strength, happiness,
contentment, love, naturalness, spontaneity,
enthusiasm, joy and bliss. All these aspects are
inseparably inter-related.
Resolution (samadhan): - Complete fulfillment of why,
Mental-strength (manobal): - Mun that is centered (in the
effect of atma) or the state of mind in realizing
understanding among realized human beings is known as
Happiness (sukha): - Perseverence in justice is known as
Commitment in duties (kartavya me nishtha): - Taking
the accountability itself is commitment in duties.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Affection (sneha): - The non-opposition from justice,
Peace (shanti): - The awakened state of thoughts that is
devoid of anguish.
Contentment (santosh): - Lacking the sense of lacking
(prosperity and resolution) or imaging and thoughts that
lack the sense of lacking.
Love (prem): - The final pledge for attaining togetherness,
closeness, alikeness and attunement of dev manav and
expression of kindness, graciousness and compassion.
Naturalness (sahajta): - The harmony in the states of mind,
Simplicity (saralta): - The natural behaviour of awakening
declaratively in thoughts, speech and actions.
Bliss (anand): - Realization in coexistence is known as
Completeness (poornta): - Having all-round resolution
itself is completeness.
emotion, understanding, conviction and realization of
Thought itself gets manifested in the form of emotion,
language and behaviour.
The behaviour, emotions and language gets restrained and
refined only from potential worthy of realization in justice,
religion and truth.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-15
Purity of thoughts itself is mental strength from
which such thoughts get manifested in behaviour.
Mental strength itself is commitment to duties,
commitment to duties itself is resolution and
prosperity, resolution and prosperity itself is
coexistence and coexistence itself is pure thoughts,
from which behaviour of justice gets established
and behaviour of injustice gets uprooted.
Discipline, restraint and reform of opportunism
gets evidenced only upon awakening.
Every human being pleads for justice from birth
itself. The root objective of ceaseless efforts of all
human beings is to give rise to potential, ability
and receptivity worthy of manifesting behaviour
of justice.
The innate-nature of human beings awakened to
the society of humanness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Chapter-16
Nurturing and Exploitation
No human being wants exploitation of his own.
Advancement and awakening is the existential purpose of
entire Cosmic order and every material unit has initiative
for evolution and progress only. It is not possible to see
independent existence of any unit in Cosmic order. Every
unit remains inspired from its environment. Cosmic order
is in the form of orderliness within itself and participation
in holistic orderliness - the seer of which is human being.
But in conscious nature there is provision for human
separated from all. Then what does independence mean?
Independence means, evidencing oneself in coexistential
orderliness in the form of harmony. Human being has
complete possibility for this and human being has realized
In this chapter the study of exploitation and nurturing is
in the context of human being only. Nurturing is towards
coexistence and its opposite is exploitation.
The ultimate of human awakening is realization in
independent existence of self, while being in harmony with
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Every unit is affected from its mutualities, whether this
effect is gross or subtle. Since this is the reasoning of
will have to reason in the context of family, society, nation
and inter-nation. Entire human race of the world is one
The accomplishment of continuity of happiness itself is
the highest advancement of human being and only in the
state of happiness a human being experiences himself to
be liberated from the stress of his environment. A happy
human being is also capable of nurturing others.
The acceptance of resolution or happiness is a
state of conscious aspect (jeevan). The harmony
itself is happiness. All human beings become
happy upon achieving resolution.
Humankind has wished for happiness from
resolution (understanding) and material
prosperity.
advanced status of nature.
Fear is the biggest obstruction in the path of
resolution. Humankind has suffered from fear of
three kinds: -
Fear of nature
Fear of animals
Fear of inhumanness in humans
Among the above three, humankind is fearful in
four ways: -
(1) Fear of rank, (2) Fear of reputation, (3) Fear
of wealth, (4) Fear of life.
Human beinghas only three means for achieving
material prosperiy :(1) body, (2) mind, (3) wealth.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Deluded human being wishes to experience
happiness by becoming liberated from the fear of
nature, animals and inhumanness in humans
through using and enjoying the objects made from
natural abundance by devoting his body, mind and
wealth.
It is for get rid of this fear, humankind wished for socialliving in the form of communities. Social-living means
fulfilling relationships and associations in society. There
are four basic sources of inspiration for fulfilling
relationships and associations in a society: - (1) civilization,
(2) culture, (3) orderliness and (4) norms.
It is with civilization, culture, norms and orderliness that
humankind wished to experience happiness while devoting
their available means of living. Human beings tried to
become happy by using and enjoying material-means, but
when individualistic efforts could not achieve happiness
then society got formed and the laws for fulfilling
relationships and associations in society got accepted.
There were endeavours of studying these laws in the
context of civilization and culture and these laws got
believed as necessary and unnecessary. Along with this,
orderliness (systems of governance) and norms emerged
to implement these laws and for inspiring public to believe
in them in the same way.
In the light of Madhyasth Darshan Sah-astitva-vad, the
ethics of good-use of available means of living as body,
mind and wealth were determined and these were given
coherence in social-living and for liberation from
inhumanness, which can also provide protection to the
means of living (body, mind and wealth). Since human
being is a social-unit, protection of body and wealth of one
human being and one family naturally leads to protection
of whole society and nation. This is possible and practicable
only when there is coherence in living from individual level
Chapter-16
Chapter-16
The evidences of righteous wealth, righteous
marital relationship and commitment in kindness.
Also, liberation from unrighteous wealth,
unrighteous marital relationship and inflicting
suffering to others.
The international ethics give inspiration and
guidance to national ethics, national ethics give
inspiration and guidance to social ethics, social
ethics give inspiration and guidance to family
ethics and family ethics give inspiration and
guidance to individual for conduct of humanness.
The ethics are determined from a different way
from this as well, where in significance of
individual for society and significance of society
for individual gets postulated. Along with this, the
significance of coherence starting from individual
until whole human society is also understood.
Awakening results in - undivideness and
universality in international ethics; orderliness
for keeping the continuity of norms (justice) in
national ethics; righteous wealth, righteous
Entire associations of humankind are sources of
inspiration for relationships. Associations are of
two kinds: - (1) association with nature, (2)
association with human beings.
Awakened human beings make use and good-use of natural
abundance in their association with nature, which is
in association with other human beings, which is
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
One who does not appraise something correctly,
will not make or will not be able to make good-use
of that thing. Therefore appraisal of every aspect
of human being is needed.
Accomplishment with complete understanding of
necessary law is known as determination and
endeavour with incomplete understanding is
known as belielf.
Therefore rejection of the conscious aspect in any
relationship itself is exploitation of that relationship.
It is possible to instate humanness only from
thoughts and behaviour that nurture associations
and relationships, otherwise there is exploitation
and suffering of inhumanness.
At the root of any unit, there are three important aspects:-
(1) constitution, (2) its purpose in existence and (3)
speciality of its conduct. Since this reasoning is in the
context of exploitation and nurturing of individual human
being until international human society, from above
discussion we reach to the conclusion that coherence and
liberation from exploitation will get realized in humankind
when constitution, purpose in existence and speciality of
conduct (function) of numerous units will become as
described below.
Speciality of
Purpose of Expected
Realization of
2. Family Constitution of limited Resolution and
number of realized
Prosperity
who are primarily
Judicious
behaviour
Production and
means with
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
3. Society Group of limited
number of families,
which includes both
relationships and
associations.
Chapter-16
Internalizing truth Publicity,
and social harmon exhibition and
with prosperity,
good-use and
with Awakening.
conservation of
means of living. Universalization
of understanding
by way of
education.
4. World Group of many
Encouraging
nations, where
humanness is the
essence of uniting
towards realization of
In, from and for
wealth), for bringing this conduct into practice and at all
such a social order gets established and developed which
a social order would be only with characteristics and ethics
that are nurturing, which will pave the way for Awakening,
from which humankind will achieve Happiness.
According to above, all thoughts and practices in realizing
ethics of human-religion and ethics of human-state into
practice will prove to be nurturing, all elese will only prove
to be exploitative.
Liberation from exploitation is necessary for becoming free
from stress of environment. This liberation gets evidenced
in humankind only from all-round resolution upon
In the light of Madhyasth Darshan Sah-astitva-vad, the
coordinated ethics of human-religion and ethics of humanstate has been done with help of following basic principles.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Earth is One
(undivided nation)
Nation states
are Many.
Human race is One
Human actions
are Many.
is One
(4) Almighty (Omnipotence)
is One
From above four principles one very significant
formula emerges and that is: -
(mutual conflict) is mysteriousness and
consumerism. Upon awakening all fragments get
united by becoming complementary and useful for
each other.
Ethics of Human-Religion
Definition
with understanding. Producing evidences of resolution,
prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence itself is definitive
program, which is known as Ethics of Human-Religion.
are Many.
Chapter-16
The understanding and adherence of ethics of
human religion is necessary because every human
being wishes for good-use of available natural
grandeur and means of living obtained from his
experimentation and production activities.
Aim or Objective
To pave the way of qualitative change from
inhuamanness to humanness by provisioning the
understanding, means, opportunity and
orderliness, which is capable of encouraging
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Every human being must necessaerily have three
things for achieving an objective: -
Aspirant (sadhak): - Every human being is known as
individual, family, society, nation and inter-nation.
Practice (sadhana): - The procedure deployed for
achieving the objective with body, mind and wealth, with
perspective, pursuits and nature of humanness is known
Means (sadhan): - Body, mind and wealth are the means.
Awakening is the only objective for all human beings.
The deployment of means are with nine
distinctions - as physical, verbal, mental, by doing,
getting done and by giving consent. These means
are being used only in three domains: - (1) natural
The study of coexistence and social harmony is only in the
The constitution of undivided society is in the form of
orderliness with code of purposeful conduct of individuals
with understanding. Individuals are connected with
undivided society through relationships and associations.
The following relationships are seen in humansociety: -
The relationship of father-mother and sondaughter
The relationship of husband and wife
The relationship of teacher and disciple
The relationship of brother and sister
The relationship of guide and assistant
The relationship of orderliness and holistic
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The relationship of friends
The Relationship of father-mother and sondaughter: - In the relationship of father-mother and sondaughter, in motherly feelings the essence of the
relationship is with acknowledgement of body (as
nourishment) and in the fatherly feelings give priority to
values, awakening along with nourishment of body. In
essence, mother is with priority to nourishment and father
is with priority to protection.
Every human-child recognizes his mother and father. This
recognition is also an indication of healthy childhood. The
values with which father and mother present themselves
in the form of duty of providing nourishment. Therefore
the role of mother is primarily care along with guidance.
Mother herself holds and carries the value of care.
Chapter-16
progress progress and after some age they want to see its
Mother and father keep expectations from their children
upbringing is the only duty of mother-father towards their
son-daughter and their only expectation from child is a
smile. In adolescence, they want to see some education
and refinement in language. After adolescence, they wish
to see good civilized behaviour in their children. In terms
of civilized behaviour, essentially the father-mother want
to get the feeling of gratitude from their child and for
getting this invaluable treasure they devote their body,
mind and wealth for serving their children. Every mother
and father only wish all-round resolution, prosperity and
well-being for their children and at the root they expect
gratitude from them. The children who are not grateful
to their mother-father and teacher, are necessarily
ungrateful, from which they themselves remain in conflict
and give conflicts to others.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
The Relationship of Husband and Wife: -
The ultimate accomplishment of marital life is behaviour
in marital life is about relationships and associations. This
means that marital-life are two in the form of individuals
and one in the form of behaviour.
opportunity, need and accomplishment for both sides is
to fulfill their relationships and associations without any
conflicts (disagreements) between both of them. As far as
reputation, respect, prestige and fame and concerned,
these are common for both husband and wife and
whenever anyone gets them - it gets distributed equally to
other also and it is accepted also. This itself is the evidence
The value of trust is absolutely necessary in all humanrelationships. This is the crux of recognizing relationships.
fulfilling these relationships for the life-time. This itself is
the evidence of awakened human tradition. Among all
relationships, the relationship of husband-wife is a
significant one. In this relationship along with trust the
values of respect, affection and love are continuously
experienced or are experienced from time to time. At the
minimum the value of trust continues. The value of love is
combined expression of kindness, graciousness and
compassion. In this aspect - the values of kindness,
graciousness and compassion getting expressed and
appraised in husband and the same becoming expressed
and appraised in wife itself is love. Mutual-appraisal
naturally happens based on individual abilities in
relationships. Mutual appraisal in a relationship is a
receptivity is absolutely necessary in a husband-wife
relationship.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
It is only with this mutual appraisal that balance in
receptivity and ability of husband and wife is achieved. It
is not possible that either husband or wife or both do not
have any ability of receptivity. This is not even possible in
any married life or in any adult or young person. It is
possible though that the ability and receptivity in one
person is less or more than the other person. It is for
achieving balance in these that marital-life is found to be
highly useful. To ignore these facts and intents alone is
Chapter-16
The Relationship of Teacher and Disciple: -
The teacher keeps his hope anchored towards disciple that
whatever study is imparted will get understood by the
The disciple in turn expects from teacher that teacher will
teach based on his specific expectations and inquiries. The
desire of accomplishment is common between both teacher
and disciple. This process has mutual complementariness.
are only with singular objective that understanding of
When the disciple attains complete understanding then
the teacher celebrates, or the teacher experiences joy,
which is called realization of guidance. It means, all elders
remain earnest in transmitting the characteristics that they
expect from their children. The satisfaction that they get
in its return, that itself is its accomplishment. There is no
desire here for anything material in return of this giving.
The disciple recognizes teacher with trust. Their meeting
is natural. Union becomes evident in the form of meeting.
The union of teacher and disciple gets manifested as workbehaviour and studying for the purpose of awakening, since
teacher alone is the one who imparts the study. In the
course of teaching the expectation and trust remains that
the disciple will receive knowledge.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Whatever number of disciples becomes successful in this
explained. This itself is the evidence of success of teacherdisciple relationship. As the expectation and inquiry of
is from such doubtless way the values of honour, reverence,
gratitude get offered to the teacher. In this way the
relationship of teacher and disciple becomes joyous with
realization of these values.
The Relationship of Brother and Sister: -
The relationship of brother and sister is also known by the
feeling of camaraderie. In this relationship there is
expectation and enthusiasm for mutual awakening. The
awakening of one encourages awakening of other. For
then the extent she is happy with those, her brother is
happy about them to the same extent or more. It is the
same way between two brothers and two sisters.
The brother and sister relationship gets recognized after a
certain age and with that they start doing mutual-appraisal
of their obedience, helpfulness and following as per the
expectations of their awakened family. The same happens
with friends as well. When brother and sister start doing
appraisal of each other on these issues, then too they have
the relationship of obedience and emulation with their
guardians and teachers. All these aspects become clear in
this appraisal process. Preciseness in expression of
In the adolescent age there is an aspect of discipline among
brother-sister, brother-brother and sister-sister
relationship. Discipline through obedience is only onesided, while discipline gets naturally accepted by children
when their teachers and guardians live what they say. On
the basis of these facts alone, the child starts connecting
the discipline which he follows with his thoughts.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Along with this, the child starts thinking about what is
necessary and what is unnecessary, what is useful and what
is useless. In this way discipline starts getting accepted
based on its necessity and usefulness also. Slowly every
child becomes proficient in discipline. The child going
through such thought processes starts the process of
arriving at conclusions in himself and to have firm stability
of these conclusions itself had been the intent of obedience
As one reaches the adult-age, self-discipline naturally
becomes a need. Self-discipline alone is the evidence of
all-round resolution. Self-discipline is achieved in the form
of all-round resolution only. This itself is the expectation
and realization of human consciousness. Self-discipline
becomes universalized through education. It is only in an
awakened human tradition that education of humanness
gets realized. In this way, living with these acceptances in
friends continue realizing the values of trust, respect and
affection, along with mutual-appraisal. In this way these
relationships primarily have the values of trust, respect
remains to be realized.
The Relationship of Guide and Assistant: -
This relationship is found to be realized from the way of
mutual complementariness. This relationship gets realized
when assistant is commited to duties and guide is
committed to responsibilities. This is a mutually
complementary relationship. At the core, fulfilling of
responsibilities and fulfillment the duties alone realizes
harmony in this relationship. This is a gift of awakened
human tradition. In this relationship primarily there is
the value of trust. The values of glory, respect and affection
are offered. This naturally entails good friendship.
The Relationship of Orderliness and Participation
in Holistic orderliness in Resolved Human
tradition: -
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The orderliness with humanness has its intrinsic norms
and legislation manifests these norms. The one whe holds
and carries orderliness is awakened human being only.
Human being has to be awakened for participating in
orderliness. It is only upon awakening that every man and
woman produces the evidences of knowing, believing,
recognizing and fulfilling.
The manifestation of social-responsibility is in the form of
every awakened family living with resolution and
prosperity. This successively leads to recognizing entire
humankind as one unit. Fulfilling is a natural consequence
of recognizing a relationship. Such way of fulfilling
relationships remains naturally linked with expression of
Chapter-16
The need for participation remains to be there from the
level of family-order till the level of world-family-order. It
is for this participation that human being presents himself
by way of understanding. It is only by way of
understanding that it is natural, simple and necessary for
every man and woman to participate in orderliness. In
this way alone the existential purpose of humankind gets
realized, which has been recognized in the form of
resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence and its
The Relationship of Friends
The equality in resolution and prosperity itself is the
relationship of friends and collaboration in all-round
resolution itself is known as friendship.
In this relationship, it is necessary tht if one side gets into
some adverse situation or circumstances then the other
side starts working towards rescuing the friend from that
situation or circumstance by spending all his means (body,
mind and wealth). This itself is the ultimate
accomplishment of friendship. The difficulties of the friend
stuck in a difficulty gets perceived by the other friend. The
test of friendship is that the other side precisely
understands the difficulties and if there is a solution for
that situation, then he devotes his energies towards that
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
The continuity of friendship is realized only from behaviour
of justice. When duties and responsibilities are fulfilled
in these relationships of friends, then these prove to be
the relationship of friends the values of trust, respect and
affection are primary, while the value of love remains to
be evidenced.
The religion for humankind is happiness. Human being is
so much steeped in want of happiness that he cannot be
disoriented from it even for a moment. The definition of
one cannot be separated or that separation of which is not
evolved unit of nature includes religion of less evolved
The study of human being in all aspects and states is
necessary and desired for harmony in behaviour in the
above described relationships and associations. Therefore,
all human beings in all ages are counted in twelve statuses.
All these want to become happy. Happiness as well as
Misery happens with a definite law. Therefore, by which
law-bound procedure the human beings in the following
twelve states are found to be happy, its clarification is as
follows.
A mighty person becomes happy with kindness.
An intelligent person becomes happy with wisdom and
A beautiful or handsome person becomes happy with
righteous character.
A person with societal-rank becomes happy with justice.
A wealthy person becomes happy with generosity.
A student becomes happy with commitment.
An assistant becomes happy with dutifulness .
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
A guide becomes happy by being responsible.
An ascetic becomes happy by being content.
A public-servant becomes happy with affection.
A human being becomes happy with love in coexistence.
A sick person and a child experiences happiness in the form
of obedience.
and associations has been described below. Such
behaviour, experimentation and efforts are nurturing for
realization of undivided society and universal orderliness.
The life of a man is successful from fortitude. The
realization of awakening in man itself is fortitude.
The life of a woman is successful from
perseverence. The realization of awakening in
The life of mother and father is successful from
dignified personality.
commitment towards ethical living.
The orderliness is successful from acceptance and
adherence of laws of justice.
The life of public is successful from participation
in holistic orderliness.
The living of a teacher is successful from teaching
with authenticity of realization.
The life of a disciple is successful from
accomplishing the meaning as bodh as a result of
study imparted by the teacher.
The life of an assistant is successful from fulfilling
the duties.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
The life of a guide is successful from fulfilling the
The life of a brother or sister is successful from
the responsibilities with affection.
The life of a friend is successful from realizing
generosity towards each other and realizing allround resolution with prosperity.
successful in behaviour as described above. The
eradication of all tendencies of exploitation is
possible only from conduct according to above. In
this way, undivided society gets realized.
Ethics of Human-State
The Definition
protection of means (body, mind and wealth) is known as
State: - The land area inhabited by humans and also which
The Need
Human being wishes for protection of wealth
obtained from experimentation and occupation
and of naturally available wealth, because his hard
work (physical labor) is devoted and utilized in it.
adherence to understanding, honesty and
responsibility is necessary for accomplishing this
protection.
Aim and Purpose
of undivided society and universal orderliness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
provide means, opportunity and protection for
paving the way for advancing from inhumanness
to humanness and encouraging super-humanness.
knowledge of existence in the form of coexistence,
knower, doer and enjoyer of this knowledge. It is necessary
that this understanding gets transferred from one human
and realization. It is this accomplishment or awakening that is adequate for dispelling entire delusion.
In awakened human tradition, the State is manifestation
recognized primarily in five dimensions: - (1) Education,
(2) Justice, (3) Production, (4) Exchange, (5) Health.
These five dimensions of a State are meaningful only when
they are universal. Education dimension of State is
successful when it imparts understanding of meaning.
Justice dimension of State is successful in recognition of
relationships (in coexistence), fulfilling of values, appraisal
and mutual-contentment. Production dimension of State
is successful when every family is able to produce more
than its needs and realizes prosperity. Exchange dimension
of State is successful with recognition of value of hard-work
(physical labor) as the basis of exchange. Health
dimensions are indicative of human-awakening and its
realization as undivided society and universal orderliness.
This itself is the grandeur of human State. In this way,
every family lives with resolution and prosperity.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
If problem is there then its resolution has to be
there. Definitiveness has to result on the basis of
No human being wants indefiniteness in law and
order. Continuity in trust and commitment
towards law and order requires them to be
Prior to this the distinction in judicious and opportunist
behaviour has been presented. Only indefinite direction,
movement and events is possible from opportunistic
policies whereby stability and trust in orderliness can not
be achieved. Along with this, it has also been made clear
that humanness alone can be the basis for development
and practice of ethics of justice.
The aim of norms is to win (as resolution) over
conserve and encourage adherence to norms. Humanness
results from such norms.
Conservation and
encouragement of humanness results from orderliness
given for these norms. In this way, trust is achieved in
tradition from norms and orderliness of humanness.
Awakened human being only is capable of
providing education in human tradition. The
purpose of education is, formulation and
elaboration of undivided society and its realization
as resolution, prosperity, fearlessness and
coexistence. In this way the society gets realized
as grandeur of undividedness and universality.
Education Policy is that which can develop perspective,
above could be realized in practice.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Entire humankind is carrying out numerous activities only
in the conscious domain, cultural domain and natural
domain. Entire human behaviour is in these three domains.
mind and wealth and provide law and order for the same.
Here it is necessary to know that the understanding in
human being itself gets manifested as adherence to natural
and cultural laws at the time of work and behaviour,
whereby awakening gets realized. Here we will study the
The Conscious Domain (of Understanding)
The Right (Tendency of
The Wrong (Tendency
of Deluded Human being)
1 Evidence of Prosperity
(Earning to spend for
Hoarding (The efforts to
hoard or not spend what
has been earned)
2 Evidence of Affection
Hatred (Opposing the
necessary laws), destroying
other, while trying to protect
oneself from exploitation.
Incorrect-knowledge (which
contradicts humanness),
tendency of doubting and
instinctual living, tendency
of doing over-valuation,
Conceit (life of pretensions,
over-valuation of oneself)
3 Knowledge (understanding of coexistence),
evidence of understanding.
4 Simplicity (clarity devoid
of pretensions)
5 Evidence of fearlessness
(wisdom) and resolution
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The Wrong (Tendency
of Deluded Human being)
Unrighteous wealth (Wealth
evidence of realizing prosp- obtained through exploitation
erity through remuneration, and charlatanism)
gift and reward.
2 Righteous marital
Unrighteous marital
relationship, Kindness in
relationship (that which
work and behaviour (the
evidence of living in
Inflict suffering to others
the evidence of making the (interference in life of others)
receptivity.
The Cultural Domain
The Right (Tendency of
Chapter-16
The Natural Domain
The Right (Tendency of
The Wrong (Tendency
of Deluded Human being)
1 The evidence of utilizing
minerals and forests) in
proportion of their
Over-use (excessive spending)
of natural-treasures than their
regeneration capacity.
2 The evidence of being
complementary in the
balance of naturaltreasures.
Disproportionate extraction
for production and
3 Maintaining the cyclicality
Causing obstruction in
natural cyclicality. Extracting
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The Ethics of Human-State at the level of Nation
should be determined based on the following six
perspectives and its aim should be made clear. The
normalization of orderliness and self-discipline
coexistence, awakening and prosperity.
National-Security to be based on coexistence
Economic-Security of Nation to be based on the
Production-Security of Nation to be based on
Exchange-Security of Nation to be based on the
Education-Security of Nation to be based on
Ethical-Security of Nation to be based on good-use
and conservation of means in the form of body, mind
and wealth.
1. National Security: - National-Security is about
ensuring the adherence and commitment in the citizens
of the Nation towards National Sovereignty and
Independence. The policy of national-security is aligned
with undivided society and universal orderliness.
National-security is that from which every citizen, family
and society of the Nation can experience security and every
individual can work and practice fearlessly, where every
citizen has the opportunity to experience a resolved and
prosperous life.
Chapter-16
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
It is clear that such a policy can be determined only with
perspective of humanness. Also, with such a policy, due
to its not having any possibility of exploitation of other
Nations, would build trust for mutual coexistence among
Nations.
economic-security should be based on the following points.
Developing the policy by which all individuals develop the
work-ethics for production-activities based on their
potential, ability and receptivity. Its vision is in the form
of every family doing more production than its definite
needs and thereby living with resolution and prosperity.
Developing the policy that encourages prosperity at the
level of family and makes the means available accordingly.
Making contentment commonly available as living with
resolution and prosperity.
Giving respect to people and express honour towards
people based on their potential, ability and receptivity
Developing the policy that encourages maximum
utilization of human-labor and available means for
Developing the policies for undivided society of humanness
and resolution that is free from thoughts of many castes,
groups, opinions, communities and ideologies.
Adherence to righteous wealth, righteous marital
relationship and kindness in work and behaviour.
Ending the divide of rich and poor on the basis of resolution
and prosperity in every family.
Developing the procedure for making justice available to
men and women of all age-groups within the orderliness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Entire Economic-Policy must have full possibility of
realization of prosperity from individual till whole-nation
while keeping the perspective, innate-nature and concerns
of humanness as aim. This gets realized as commitment
in righteous wealth, righteous marital relationship and
kindness in work and behaviour and eradication of
activities of unrighteous wealth, unrighteous relationship
and activities that inflict suffering to others, because
eventually the practicable form of entire relationships,
associations and property is only in the form of righteous
wealth, righteous marital relationship and kindness in
work and behaviour.
3. Production Security: - The endeavour towards
generating wealth (useful-products) while making gooduse of hard-work (physical labor) and technology is known
as production. Instilling utility and art value by deploying
hard-work (physical labor) on natural-grandeur itself is
Good-use of available hard-work (physical labor) and
wealth itself is security.
Mainly there are only two kinds of productions needed for
humankind: - 1. Agriculture, 2. Industry. All other kinds
of occupations either depend on these are are
complementary to these.
State needs to determine the policy for production-security
based on the following facts.
Giving priority to proficiency in skills, behaviour and
knowledge.
Making resources available to one with merits of skills and
Developing policies that help efforts and innovation for
objects of human-use such as food, shelter, utility, longdistance travel, tele-communication.
Developing policies for universalization (making
commonly available) the skills and arts that maximize
production on the basis of understanding.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-16
Developing policies that ensure that there is no exploitation
of the results of hard-work (physical labor).
While determining the policy for occupational-security, it
is only by developing production-policy which is as per
justice, appropriate opportunities for use, good-use,
distribution, innovation and occupation can become
available for fulfilling duties and responsibilities in
relationships and associations.
4. Exchange Security: - The endeavours of obtaining
produced-objects based on appraisal of physical labor in
producing them is known as exchange (in the purview of
The policy of exchange should be determined on the
following bases.
Determining the policy for encouraging perspective
and distribution-procedure of of coexistentialism for
realizing exchange devoid of profit or loss.
Developing the exchange-procedures based on hardwork (physical labor).
International-exchange ought to be devoid of profit and
loss, which is successful only when it is based on value of
objects of human-needs and hard-work (physical labor)
of human being.
5. Education Security: - That which imparts methodical
study of realities from existence-rooted human-centric
method (Madhyasth Darshan Sah-astitva-vad) is known
The responsibility of making the study successful is with
It is possible to develop successful education procedures
only when the education-process, teacher, mother-father
and study are in complete agreement with each other, from
which the path of gratitude and coexistence gets paved.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Education-policy and Education-processes.
The Aim of Education Policy is: -
Chapter-16
Making the citizens with perspective, tendency and innatenature of humanness, i.e. their having understanding,
honesty, responsibility and participation based on
knowledge, wisdom and science.
The success of education policy is from the following: -
The study of conscious aspect (jeevan) along with science.
The study of impressions-aspect (sanskar) along with
The study of ethics of good-use and conservation of natural
and conscious grandeur along with economics.
The study of culture and civilization of humanness along
with sociology.
The study of ethics of conservation and growth of
humanness along with political-sciences.
The study of activities (units of nature as realities) along
with spiritual studies.
The study of human being and humanness along with
history and geography.
The study of reality along with literature.
awakening. It is only upon awakening the undivided
society and universal orderliness gets recognized. As a
result ethics are realized. This itself is the meaning of gooduse and conservation.
Chapter-17
Liberation from Mysteriousness
Not expressing the understanding, or being unable
to express the understanding, or not being able to
attain understanding itself is mystery and the lack
Unit is activity. The eternal presence of
humankind gets evidenced with understanding.
Human being is the only unit in existence that
achieves complete understanding from realization
in coexistence. An awakened human being
evidences his own awakening (understanding) by
paving the way for awakening (understanding) of
Holistic view (darshan) of every unit is
characteristics and innate-nature are understood
and only realization is possible of religion, which
is possible only from methodically following the
order, guidance and instruction with possibility of
realization for study from the unit (human being)
who has achieved realization.
The realization in jeevan happens in coexistence.
It is from realization rooted method that human
being evidences his understanding through the
five sense organs by participating in orderliness.
It is on the basis of understanding that values get
savoured by human being through the five sense
organs. Thereby understanding of coexistence
gets manifested as resolution. This itself is in the
form of savouring of values in human being. This
itself is the evidence of continuity of happiness.
This itself is the evidence of sensations becoming
restrained with understanding.
Chapter-17
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Jeevan continuously thirsts for happiness.
happiness through five senses, permanence or continuity
of happiness does not happen, then he starts trying again
where there is possibility of achieving continuity of
happiness. This possibility is there based on the principle:
gets realized from completeness in awakening of conscious
aspect. This is the reason human being always keeps trying
to associate and relate with those who are more awakened
than himself.
The eradication of mysteriousness is based on
level of awakening of conscious aspect. The
distinctions in levels of awakening of conscious
aspect determine distinction in its evolution
Evolution of consciousness is with distinctions of
completely-awakened, half-awakened, semiawakened and un-awakened. These are also called
as completely-conscious, half-conscious, semiconscious and unconscious.
A conscious unit (jeevan) has the five inseparable
Every human activity is with use of conscious
aspect, these are as wants, thoughts, desires,
conviction and realization in existence.
Due to delusion, the wants of mun are with respect
to sensations from body, the thoughts of vritti
follow those wants, desires of chitta follow those
thoughts. This process is expression of sensitivity
and desires are found to be there because of
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
In the purview of awakening - wants of mun follow
vritti, thoughts of vritti follow chitta, desires of
chitta follow understanding of buddhi and buddhi
achieves its potential with acceptance of
realization in coexistence that happens in atma.
As a result, reflection and manifestation activities
of jeevan get completely realized.
There is expectation of want between gross-body
and mun, of thought between mun and vritti, of
desire between vritti and chitta and of conviction
between chitta and buddhi and of evidence of
realization between buddhi and atma. This is a
cyclical-activity, which is combination of
reflection and manifestation. This itself is the
cycle of awakened jeevan.
In this way there is harmony in jeevan. Natural
inspiration for body is from mun, for mun is from
vritti, for vritti is from chitta, for chitta is from
buddhi and for buddhi is from atma and for atma
realization in coexistence is natural inspiration.
The control of gross-body is according to mun only, but
due to delusion mun wants to experience happiness from
body. However since vritti is subtler than mun, it can not
become according to this want of mun and mutual-discord
between them remains. Vritti wants to use mun and body
according to its thoughts. In the same way, the discord
between vritti, chitta, buddhi and atma remains to be
there. This discord itself gets experienced as unrest and
causes the thirst for effortlessness.
Awakening or resolution is reverse of the above sequence,
which is as follows. In realization rooted way, the wants
in mun are according to vritti and the control of body
happens according to that, thoughts in vritti are according
conviction in buddhi is according to realization in atma.
Realization in coexistence itself is complete awakening.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Realization oriented method (or in the process of study) is
about reflection-activity, wherein the wants in mun happen
towards making use and good-use of body according to
thoughts that arise in vritti and desires arise in chitta to
fulfill these thoughts, while desires remain restrained with
conviction made in buddhi for achieving realization in
provision in existence for discipline and restraint of
buddhi, chitta, vritti, mun and body by atma. The
endeavours that contradict this restraint alone give rise to
Awakening is inundation of mun from effect of vritti, vritti
from chitta, chitta from buddhi and buddhi from atma.
When jeevan is active in this way, it realizes its complete
potential, whereby there is no friction in its efforts and
effortlessness becomes evident in all levels of jeevan. This
itself is all-round resolution. In this state, body is fully
restrained on the basis of understanding (completeness
of cognition).
Atom of material nature itself transcends to
conscious stage or plane.
The atom of material nature upon transcending to
conscious-status evidences sensory-recognition according
to specie in animal order. This means, an atom is
In animal order, jeevan functions with specie
conformance method while keeping body alive
along with want-to-be-alive. Therefore it is known
intellect aspect remains undeveloped. In that state
mun functions according to body, while vritti and
In human-jeevan only with the union of mun and
vritti - the imaging is merely of imaginations or
dreams. The imaginations that do not get
manifested in work and behaviour are dreams.
Chapter-17
Until understanding of self becomes complete at
the root of entire activities of human being in
false sense of self, which are beliefs of delusion.
method of awakening, until one attains complete
understanding of self, the false sense of self is not
of mun.
Attachment and agitation are totally incapable in
making human living successful. Therefore study,
attachment and agitation.
The study of nature (physical-activity, chemical-activity
and jeevan-activity) in coexistence is the only way for
becoming liberated from conflicting thoughts (delusion),
i.e. for becoming resolved. There are only two paths for
realization of awakened tradition: -
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
One - Follow, Emulate, Study and Evidence
Two - Research, Explore and Evidence
This path is realized by way of awakened tradition.
Following or emulating behaviour of justice.
Becoming established (inclined) in thoughts of
Through commitment and perseverance in above two
programs one attains capability of becoming realized in
truth and as a result buddhi becomes inundated (fulfilled).
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
a new-discovery, the aspirant does complete study of his
discovery. Complete-study means understanding from
initial-state (ultimate regression) of activity until the
ultimate of progress and awakening.
It becomes clear to the aspirant from this study that the
ultimate regression can be an atom or it can be even subtler.
Howsomuch subtle a constitution may be, it is after all an
activity only. Now it also becomes clear to him that entire
activities are totally inundated in a Great emptiness. This
Great emptiness is the Space or the pervasive element
(Omnipresence) itself. The homogeneity of this Space is
the only cause that Omnipotence is immanent as
inspiration to entire units of nature for their activity in the
same way. In such an aspirant, who is earnest for Samadhi,
Knowledge-Wisdom-Science become successful. One who
has seen entire deterioration and advancement, who has
seen self and found himself to be in an evolution stage of
the continuously evolving Cosmic order. From this point,
the aspirant starts studying for his advancement.
Upon study he comes to conclude that the ultimate of
advancement is Awakening, which is realization in all
pervasive Omnipotence in which entire units are
continuously active and acquiring potential, ability and
receptivity of such realization itself is the single most and
ultimate fortitude, which is Awakening. The aspirant also
aim, but it is the absolute existential purpose of entire
humankind. Therefore for attaining such potential, ability
and receptivity, to move from inhumanness to humanness,
he gets established in behaviour of justice and thoughts of
religion. Being established thus, instantly such capable
aspirant starts developing potential in conscious aspect for
fulfilling the remaining awakening for godly humanness
and divine humanness. As a result, he becomes a worthyreceptive of godly humanness and divine humanness and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
the Omnipresence, progress and awakening. As a result
of this accomplishment the aspirant realizes that his jeevan
has become truly successful and he has accomplished the
understanding in the form of a tradition. After this
accomplishment, his presentation itself becomes evidence
mysteriousness and proving absolute-necessisity of
humanness in behaviour. Samadhi means coherence.
Coherence means inundation from bodh of realization that
happens in atma. This becomes a norm in awakened
human tradition. Every disciple (student) in an awakened
human tradition is an aspirant of awakening.
According to above description, when the aspirant gets
established in behaviour of humanness and thoughts of
and buddhi happen, its elucidation is given below.
When mun becomes capable of receiving signals
of vritti then it gets oriented in resolution and
behaviour of humanness, which are the wants of
friendliness (anticipation of living in harmony
with others). Such anticipation of friendliness and
justice gets manifested in the form of affection.
The response of affection is unopposedness in
happiness and justice. The laws of conservation,
adherence and conduct of humanness itself are
When vritti becomes capable of receiving signals
of chitta then one becomes realized in peace. The
strength of thoughts is from contemplation (in
chitta) only.
Contemplation itself is
determination of process, result and purpose in
Chapter-17
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Therefore, coherence of mun, vritti and chitta gives rise
to wants of friendliness for behaviour of justice, which
determine process, result and purpose, which are known
realization rooted method.
When chitta becomes capable of receiving signals
of buddhi then realization of contentment
happens. As a result, awakening arises in the selfsufficient human-jeevan, or human being becomes
Such a self-driven human being is found to be realizing
excess production, less consumption and there is least
wastage and he is source of inspiration for awakening of
more and more people. Humankind has the thirst for
When mun, vritti and chitta are in alignment then
understanding of justice, religion and truth is
achieved.
When buddhi becomes capable of receiving signals
of atma, then understanding of self is achieved,
Truth results from Self-Realization. Conviction in
Truth is in the form of Truthful Conduct (Conduct
of Humanness) only.
discipline of atma, then behaviour of justice and
thoughts of religion are established in self because
of realization in Truth.
Continuity of Definitiveness itself is Conviction.
Imaging with Definitiveness itself is known as Plan
and Planned-thoughts itself is Meaningfulexpression.
The capability of receiving signals from subtlerself (causal-activities of buddhi and atma)
emerges only from inversion of conscious forces.
thoughts into desires, desires into conviction and
conviction into atma or in activity of centeredness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
In the absence of crimes in behaviour - the wants
of kindness are reflected into thoughts; in the
absence of injustice - the thoughts of justice are
reflected into desires) in the absence of
attachment - the desires of resolution are reflected
into buddhi; and in the absence of ignorance - the
conviction of understanding is reflected into atma.
Therefore, for behaviour devoid of crimes the effect of
orderliness is necessary, for thoughts devoid of injustice
the effect of society is necessary, for intellect (buddhi)
is necessary, from which alone the complete-reflection is
vritti, chitta and buddhi for the purpose of understanding
and upon understanding and becoming realized - centering
mun, vritti, chitta and buddhi for producing evidence of
realization. Attentiveness is necessary for understanding
the meaning and for producing evidences of the meaning.
This alone is the objective of attention. All human beings
pay attention (to what they accept as objective of attention).
conscious-forces is necessary only along with orderliness
of humanness, conduct of social harmony, study and
impressions of humanness, from which the
accomplishment of absolute progress (awakening) is
Complete awakening is to achieve behaviour of
justice, thoughts of religion (resolution) and
desires based on realization in Truth.
Not allowing mistakes and crimes in behaviour is
also an indication of complete awakening. This is
to be seen in human-relationships. Living with
justice, religion (resolution) and truth itself is
complete awakening.
Humankind has the opportunity for understanding,
studying and experimenting in spiritual, conscious and
material domains. Every man and woman has capability
of becoming realized and experimenting in coexistence.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
At the root of mysteriousness there is only a false sense of
self or delusion.
Without having the understanding of truth the imaging
activity in chitta would necessarily have the flaws of
excessiveness, insufficiency or absence. Therefore the
imaging will necessarily have imaginary imposition prior
to understanding. This imaginary imposition in imaging
Vritti is greater activity than mun, chitta is greater activity
than vritti and buddhi is greater activity than chitta.
Therefore, their mutual restraint is only from distinction
in their successively higher capabilities.
It is only after attaining the capability of
perspectives, innate-nature and pursuits of
humanness that the aspirant gets inclined for the
remaining endeavours for accomplishing godly
humanness and divine humanness.
The self-realization happens only from inversion of
conscious-forces. Self-realization is the ultimate
accomplishment of giving attention. This itself is complete
awakening. Such self-realized awakened human being is
known as completely-awakened and such a person himself
is as dev manav and divya manav in the form of evidence.
When buddhi gets reflected towards atma,
understanding of self (atma) is achieved and
realization happens when atma gets reflected in
Omnipotence itself is realization in coexistence.
The manifestation of realization itself is
inundated.
Such human beings with realization in
Omnipotence, with evidence in conduct are known
continuous sources of inspiration.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Human being wants to become awakened through
study from inspiration, blessings and grace of his
own and of other human beings, dev manav, divya
also accomplish godliness and divineness.
human beings for their awakening and that he
does all the time.
The expectation of social harmony is from thoughts with
capability of complete cognition. Refinement in thoughts
is necessary, because conservation of social living is from
fulfilling duties and responsibilities in associations and
relationships. The fulfillment of social-responsibilities is
only from refined thoughts and behaviour with completeunderstanding. Such refined thoughts and behaviour is
possible only upon attaining humanness and super
humanness. This itself is awakening.
An awakened human being has the capability of restraining
material aspect for maintaining the balance in alignment
with coexistence. It is only upon attaining completeness
in potential, ability and receptivity of realization in
coexistence, that awakening of conscious aspect gets
realized. In the absence of such awakening, the conscious
aspect has the acceptance of destruction.
For becoming realized in the restraint evident in existence
as knowledge or coexistence - discipline in thoughts is
necessary, for discipline in thoughts - reflection of forces
of chitta is necessary, for such reflection - commitment
and perserverence is necessary and for commitment and
perseverance the absolute-knowledge of material,
conscious and the Omnipresence is necessary.
Given below are the essential guidelines about material,
conscious and the all pervasive Omnipotence: -
Mortality is the religion of material nature,
Immortality is the religion of conscious nature
(jeevan) and Eternity is the religion of all pervasive
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
A body constituted from many atoms, or an evolution
The knowledge, wisdom and science emerged in human
being only according to awakening of intellect or conscious
aspect. As a result, there are many levels of consciousness
in humankind. The absolute energy is all pervasive,
therefore it is always immanent to all units in the same
way. Since coexistence is eternal: -
The units of material order are continuously active
because of being in it.
The units of pranic order are continuosly pulsing
because of being in it.
The units of animal order continuously want-tobe-alive because of being in it.
The units of knowledge order continuously wantto-be-alive and continuously anticipate to know
because of being in it.
The characteristics of less evolved units remain merged in
Knowledge is revealed only by conscious aspect
(jeevan) and only through thoughts.
Conscious aspect (jeevan) moves towards
deterioration (delusion) or awakening based on
The empathy in human being towards discomfort,
misery, pain and distress of others is because of
his potential and possibility for becoming realized
in knowledge.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The ability of realization in knowledge depends on
impressions; state of impressions depends upon
humanness and super-humanness; humanness
and super-humanness depend upon ability of
realization in knowledge.
The distinction in abilities among human beings
is from distinction in evolution of koshas,
accordingly there are distinctions in their world
views (holistic or limited) and from distinctions
in world views there are distinctions in resolution
From distinctions in world views are the
distinctions in status of awakening; from
distinctions in status of awakening are the
distinctions in tendencies; from distinctions in
tendencies are the distinctions in evidences; from
distinctions in evidences are the distinctions in
understanding are the distinctions of level of
consciousness; from distinctions of level of
consciousness are the distinctions in world views.
Jeevan is self. Realization in atma is greater than
the activities of mun, vritti, chitta and buddhi.
Therefore by being totally inundated from the
effect of atma is realization of bliss in buddhi,
The one who is not happy, he cannot make others
happy. The one who is not happy, must be in
misery and one can distribute only what one has.
Buddhi has the opportunity of attaining selfknowledge and of attaining understanding of
realization in the Omnipresence. Therefore, after
such realization (in atma)
all-round
understanding becomes accessible (to buddhi).
Chapter-17
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Beliefs different from actuality alone are
Despite being informed of deterioration, in the
absence of having clear understanding and
commitment, human being helplessly moves
towards his downfall in delusion.
From above reasoning it becomes clear about how to
eradicate the causes from which human being remains
distressed from fear of inhumanness in human being. In
summary, for crimelessness in behaviour - inspiration of
orderliness is necessary, for behaviour of justice - evidence
of social conduct is necessary, for virtuous desires - the
effect of study and righteous impressions is necessary and
for intellect devoid of ignorance the effect of understanding
of realization is necessary.
Therefore, for uprooting the discord in relationships and
for generating trust there, which is the first step for
awakening, conduct of humanness, social harmony,
orderliness based on justice, education with understanding
of truth and generating personal commitment with trust
in these proves to be joint responsibility of all.
The cycle of formation-deformation in physical-chemical
world gets realized on the basis of law of natural-cyclicality.
Every human being wants awakening, but due to delusion
he regresses. Its root cause is absence of cyclical-activity
between mun, vritti, chitta, buddhi and atma and not
human-mind in turmoil in the form of mysteriousness.
Following is the reasoning of the effect of above described
cyclical-activity and reflection-activity: -
In the purview of delusion, six kinds of agitations
are found to be there in humankind and these are:1. Carnality,
4. Infatuation, 5. Greed and 6. Malice.
At the root of all these is delusion. Agitation itself
is the cause of misery for human being. This itself
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
At the root of agitation is stubbornness, at the root
of stubbornness is delusion, at the root of delusion
own thoughts and behaviour (of delusion) itself is
Carnality (kaam): - The tendency of seeking happiness in
procreation and sensations from sexual-activity is known
as carnality.
Haughtiness (mad): - The extremeness in belief about
untruth itself is haughtiness.
Enchantment (moha): - Becoming helplessly infatuated
towards lucre and carnal passion itself is enchantment.
Greed (lobha): - Excessively wanting and endeavouring to
is greed, as having the tendencies for comforts and
downfall itself is malice.
in chitta and disorientation from atma in buddhi
(false sense of self) itself are tendencies rooted in
material nature). Wants of friendliness in mun,
thoughts of resolution in vritti, desires of harmony
in chitta, conviction of truth in buddhi and
evidence of realization in atma are manifestations
opposite, accomplishment of happiness is from
Chapter-17
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
between vritti and chitta and its opposite, the
environment between chitta and buddhi and its
opposite, the accomplishment of contentment is
between buddhi and atma, because atma is the
activity of centeredness. The environment of atma
is completely effective and buddhi oriented
towards atma realizes in bliss.
In this way it becomes clear that in an awakened jeevan,
realization of happiness happens in the union of mun and
vritti, realization of peace happens in the union of vritti
and chitta, realization of contentment happens in the union
of chitta and buddhi and realization of bliss happens in
the union of buddhi and atma. This itself is awakening.
In the cycle of of awakened jeevan the power of
atma is completely inundates buddhi, power of
buddhi completely inundates chitta, power of
chitta completely inundates vritti and power of
is greater than mun, chitta is greater than vritti,
buddhi is greater than chitta and atma is greater
of bliss, contentment, peace and happiness
according to awakening rooted cycle.
Atma, because of its being activity of centeredness,
is always there as effect, because stress is only in
attraction and repulsion activities. The effect of
realization is devoid of stress because of its
centeredness. Space is only an eternal effect.
Stress is only in attraction and repulsion activities.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Atma is activity of centeredness. The environment
(effect) of activity of centeredness is centered as
well; this is the reason atma and its environment
there is no stress of attraction and repulsion.
Omnipotence is all pervasive therefore it does not
prove to be the cause of stress. In the absence of
activity there is no evidence of any stress or effect.
Therefore, Space or Omnipotence is devoid of both
stress and effect and it is neutral to attractive and
repulsive effects. Every unit is in continuous
motion by having it due to its own receptivity.
Omnipotence is all pervasive and it is present at all times
and because entire activities of nature are included therein,
the inseparability of pervasive-force (Omnipotence) and
activity-force (nature) is established. These two - despite
independent from one another. Therefore the mystery of
absolute-devotion ends here. Every activity of nature is
occupied in manifesting its coexistence with the
Omnipresence according to its potential, ability and
realization in coexistence by human being.
Units situated in Space do not have obstruction in their
motion and there is no lack of energy for their continuous
motion. Therefore it is established that there is no stress
of Space. Space is Omnipotence. Space is energy. It is at
all times, at all places and being all pervasive - it is
immanent to all in the same way. Therefore it is proven
that all units are conserved and restrained in Space. This
This alternative is for realization of undivided society and
universal orderliness. In this proposal human being
himself gives the evidence of undivided society and
universal orderliness. Along with this, human being
himself is proposed to be the seer of evidence. On this issue,
there is a need to get attention of all human beings.
Chapter-17
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
On this path, the significant milestones are in terms of
human consciousness and then from human consciousness
to social-consciousness. The only way for its success is
been presented to humankind. In this way, the only unit
that can realize all-round progress and awakening is
human being, because only human being has the potential
of being in seer-status. A deluded human being exploits
the four grandeurs (appearance, physical strength, social
rank and wealth) of other deluded human beings.
The grandeur of awakening itself is eradication of
ignorance in self.
The helplessness is only from attachment
(attraction) towards undeveloped, which blocks
the awakening. As example, human being is found
to be living like animals in deluded-tradition.
An un-awakened human being is an opportunity
for an awakened human being for realizing his
Good-use of means of living itself is indication of
advancement and their misuse itself is indication
of deterioration.
Becoming spontaneous from precisely following
and emulating more evolved (realized human
being) and realization of awakening itself is the
Effortlessness or resolution is the grandeur of
human-intellect.
Omnipresence has no limit; understanding in the
form of coexistence in the Omnipresence itself is
resolution. Its realization is the good-fortune of
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-17
Transformation is norm for material nature.
Immortality is norm for conscious nature.
Eternity is norm for Omnipotence. This
understanding can become universalized from
realization rooted method with realization
oriented procedure.
The potential, ability and receptivity of conscious
unit is based on distinction in its impressions.
humanness, super-humanness and inhumanness
based on its potential, ability and receptivity only.
imagination, wants, level of consciousness,
endeavours, effect are indicative of his potential.
There is no destruction or annihilation of material
buddhi and atma). These only have less or more
of advancement and awakening.
Material nature has transformation tendency,
pranic-nature has pulsation tendency, mun has
tendency of making choices, vritti has tendency
of doing evaluation, chitta has tendency of forming
images, buddhi has tendency of understanding
and atma has tendency of realization.
Atma is present as activity of centeredness in past,
present and future. The essence of existence is
unchangable. Its realization happens in atma and
Awakened human being is established with selfrealization, because the realization in coexistence
happens in atma. This itself is the meaning of selfrealization. Its understanding happens in buddhi,
contemplation in chitta, its evaluation from
perspective of justice-religion-truth happens in
vritti and savouring of all values happens in mun.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The inspiration for making choices in accordance
with atma, buddhi, chitta and vritti is known as
The attachment towards material objects and
comforts results in tendencies for hoarding, greed
and carnality; attachment towards pranicsubstance results in tendencies of hatred,
enchantment, haughtiness, anger and arrogance;
attachment towards want-to-be-alive results in
tendencies of conceit, ignorance, jealousy and
human being. From commitment towards truth,
the natural tendencies of perseverence in duties,
un-hoarding, naturalness, fearlessness and love
(prem) become effective.
understanding is only with human being on this
Earth and not with any other unit. Therefore
human being has not attained happiness in its
Awakened human tradition only is source of
universal goodness in, from and for all human
Accomplishment of happiness itself is liberation
from mysteriousness.
Self-realization is achieved through union in
awakened tradition. Union means meeting.
Meaningful meeting means union of jeevan and
body in awakened tradition and meeting with
awakened human being for the purpose of
becoming awakened.
Chapter-17
Chapter-18
Happiness Peace Contentment and Bliss
Human being has endeavoured to achieve natural
continuity of happiness, peace, contentment and
bliss in realization and awakening.
Union is necessary for realization. Immanent and
coincidental are two kinds of unions.
In coincidental union of any kind there is
separation also. There is neither any union nor
separation in immanent-union. Achievement is
only of that which was lacking. There is no unit or
activity that is without or devoid of immanent
union. Therefore the closeness and accumulation
is only of coincidental union and only realization
is there of immanent union.
The potential, ability and receptivity for
realization in immanent union itself is capability.
Achieving such worthiness itself is the ultimate of
The study in coexistence is for achieving potential, ability
and receptivity worthy of realization. Human being has
also performed study, experimentation, exploration and
practices for realization, which have become manifested
in the form of humanness and super-humanness.
Chapter-18
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The awakening of this kind gets manifested in the form of
manav, dev manav and divya manav. It is absolutely
necessary for humankind to establish universality in
experiments, study, behaviour and orderliness for increase
in the number of dev manav and divya manav category
of human beings, because there is no possibility of crime
or wastage from such evolved human beings.
Human being commits crimes only due to
ignorance, extravagance and poverty and he
wastes only due to lack of wisdom.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Crime and wastage, both these are unhelpful from
humanness and social harmony. Crime is due to
The universality is achieved only from detailed
study and following of Madhyasth Darshan which
has been presented as a result of exploration and
study of activity of centeredness (atma).
Universality is in behaviour of justice, religion and
truth, in thoughts and in realization.
attraction or repulsion activity in the absence
(cessation) of thoughts.
Truth is the eternally immanent Omnipotence,
whose presence is there before awakening also and
the ultimate deterioration is also situated in it.
The realization in accordance to this truth itself is
realization that human being has experienced
continuity of resolution and bliss.
The three motives in manav category human
beings are as pursuits and tendencies of
humanness and their perspective is primarily of
justice in agreement with religion and truth. Their
innate-nature has been recognized in the form of
steadfastness, courage, generosity, kindness,
graciousness and compassion. They have the
knowledge of all-round resolution and for putting
that into practice the motives - especially wealthmotive and progeny-motive - remain occupied in
expressing themselves in limited spans. In manav
category, human being while being of use and
good-use remains with expectation of achieving
completeness of existential purpose. Therefore
becoming expressed in the form of dev manav and
divya manav and their realization remains as a
need in manav category.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Prior-conformance is about receiving the signals
of subtler activities of self (of buddhi and atma),
for which the tendency towards advancement,
endeavour and aim is absolutely necessary.
Every human being wants to become awakened.
Every human being becomes awakened only upon
union. It is for awakening that he remains
impatient and impetuous.
Impetuous (kaatur): - Start working quickly for fulfilling
the expected desire wherein one lacks the proficiency in
Anxious (aakul): - The suffering from not having that one
Distraught (vyakul): - Becoming full with suffering for
Restlessness (udvign): - Obstacle in accomplishment of
the desired.
Agitation (aavesh): - The stress from interference or attack
itself is agitation.
Lawful conduct (vidhivat aachran): - Behaviour aligned
with ethics of human-religion and ethics of human-state.
Post-conformance (paranukram): - The work and
behaviour rooted in sensory-activities which gets appraised
It is either for sensory experience or for realization
that human being does exploration, study,
experimentation, occupation, practice and
invention.
Sensory experience (asvadan): - That which is not there
with oneself, or is there in less measure and there is desire
for getting it, in such a state the activity that happens upon
achieving it, in which an expectation of contentment is
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The helplessness of deluded human being are in
the form of thirst from desires, agitation of
carnality and anger, the four sense-objects and
greed. The behaviour nurtured from awakened
thoughts, three motives of humanness, art and
literature produced from contemplation and
presentation of reality and resolution upon
Entire activities of world are for becoming realized
in coexistence, getting proximity of more
developed and becoming complementary to
undeveloped.
Realization in coexistence itself is the ideal of all
human beings. As a result of realization it is
natural to achieve alignment and attunement in
coexistence. Such human beings alone are in the
awakened human tradition getting closeness and
observing the conduct of such awakened human
beings is natural. Therefore, it becomes clear that
eternal manifestation of ultimate of progress,
awakening and its expression in human tradition
is a great fortune.
When a deluded human being becomes awakened
from awakening progression, then on the basis of
aligned with awakening, which gets manifested in
human tradition. The over-valuation, undervaluation and unvaluation in delusion state gets
replaced with recognition of values as jeevan
values, utility value and art value. This itself is the
evidence of alignment with reality. This itself is
immanence with reality. Coexistence is eternal
Chapter-18
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Continuity of awakening itself is clarity of reality.
The alignment in awakening itself is the end of
the effect of delusion gets nullified on its own.
Chapter-18
It is only upon awakening that human being has
expression, communication and exposition of
values with evidence and its continuity of being
remains eternally manifested in human tradition.
This itself is love and devotion.
Combined expression of kindness, graciousness
realized in, from every awakened human being.
This is the accomplishment and realization of
highest kind in clarity of reality.
The inundation (effect and flow) as a result of
realization in the Omnipresence attained from
process of reflection gets effective from buddhi,
chitta, vritti and until mun. This inundation is
known as bliss at the level of buddhi, as
contentment at the level of chitta, as peace at the
level of vritti and as happiness at the level of mun.
It is when atma gets realized in coexistence only
then reflection of buddhi becomes possible.
Mun gets reflected in vritti, vritti gets reflected in
chitta, chitta gets reflected in buddhi, buddhi gets
reflected in atma and atma gets reflected in
Reflection alone is the cause of awakening.
The awakening in human being is only from
knowledge, wisdom and science, which is the
conscious aspect. Awakening is as humanness and
Awakened human being is found to be with
centered behaviour, thoughts and realization.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Centered Behaviour: - Behaviour of Justice
Centered Thoughts: - Thoughts of Religion
Centered Realization: - Absolute truth in the form
of coexistence.
Behaviour of justice itself is the behaviour of
humanness. Behaviour of humanness means
unopposed behaviour towards humanness,
understanding that and teaching that is needed
from the perspective of undivided humankind.
Study and education is necessary for this.
Teaching and training only impart occupational
knowledge, which has been helpful for material
prosperity only.
The demarcation of humanness and superhumanness and its growth has resulted only
through behaviour with human being, for which
study and initiation is necessary.
Initiation (deeksha): - Definitive procedures of behaviour
and conduct for understanding from realization rooted
is unbroken, or in which there are no obstructions, which
has continuity. The continuity of awakening itself is oath
and initiation.
habits of food, enjoyment and participation in
Personality (vyaktitva): - The habits of food, enjoyment
and participation in orderliness that are helpful in
The study of human behaviour is to understand the
distinction in distinctions of ideal - non-ideal, rise-fall,
necessary-unnecessary.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
The appraisal of human being is the appraisal of capability
of his conscious aspect, because the conscious unit (jeevan)
itself drives, controls, guides and protects, adheres,
nurtures, appraises, assists and changes the material
aspect. These activities become prior-form of its own
further desires and thoughts.
Chapter-18
coexistence - aligned with purposeful and meaningful
desires. Knowledge, wisdom and science are in alignment
with resolution, prosperity, fearlnessness and coexistence.
Non-ideal (anisht): - Accomplishments contrary to
purposeful and meaningful desires.
Rise (utthan): - Movement towards humanness.
Fall (patan): - Movement towards inhumanness.
Advancement (vikas): - Lower value resulting into higher
Deterioration (hraas): - Higher value resulting into lower
Appropriate (uchit): - The evidence of humanness or superhumanness according to time, situation or events.
Exploitation (shoshan): - The work and behaviour
Nurturing (poshan): - Tradition of humanness and superhumanness.
Inappropriate (anuchit): - Exploitation and opposition of
humanness or super-humanness in the context of time,
situation and events.
Profitable (labh): - Getting more things and service in
exchange of less things and service.
Unprofitable (hani): - Getting less things and service in
exchange of more things and service.
Justice (nyaya): - The activities and behaviour carried out
for nurturing humanness. Recognition of relationships,
fulfilling of values, appraisal and mutual-contentment itself
is justice.
Injustice (anyaya): - The activities and behaviour contrary
to humanness carried out for exploitation and activities
and behaviour because of inhumanness itself is injustice.
Virtue (punya): - Behaviour of humanness and superhumanness.
Lawful (vidhi): - The work and behaviour with ethics of
nurturing undivided society and universal orderliness.
Unlawful (nishedh): - The work and behaviour of
inhumanness, that exploit social harmony. Entire work,
behaviour and thoughts because of animal consciousness.
Dutiful (kartavya): - The behaviour that fulfills mutual
expectations of humanness in every relationship and
association. Fulfilling of values.
Undutiful (akartavya): - Instead of behaviour that fulfils
mutual expectations of humanness in every relationship
and association, exhibiting conduct of inhumanness itself
Resolution (samadhan): - The knowledge of reality for
following ethical and refined method for every action.
Problem (samasya): - The work and behaviour of pashu
Necessary (avashyak): - The behaviour and evidence of
humanness and super-humanness.
Unnecessary (anavashyak): - Inhumanness.
Driving (chalan):- Jeevan giving signals to body.
Control (sanchalan): - Jeevan giving signals to body in a
coordinated way for the purpose of completeness, while
following the norms of living.
Chapter-18
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Protecting (prati-palan): - The removal of obstacles in
living, following for achieving perception in justice, religion
and truth.
Adhering (paripalan): - Following in the form of tradition.
Nurturing (pariposhan): - Giving continuity of awakening
Assisting (parivarshan): - Helping for awakening in
Change of mindset (chitta-parivartan): - The thoughts
becoming spontaneous and more refined.
Human being makes use and good-use of minerals,
vegetations and animals with distinction of
natural and constructed.
Constructed (vaikrutik): - Materializing the ideas for
achieving the desired utility.
The activities of Sensitivity, Receptivity,
Conservation, Teaching, Following and Reflection
are specialities of conscious aspect (jeevan), which
are not found to be there in material nature.
Sensitivity (samvedna): - The knowledge of the five
sensory-ograns and work-organs or tendency towards
Receptivity (samvahan): - Carrying the inquiries for
completeness or the capacity for understanding.
Conserving (sanrakshan): - Paving the way for progress.
Teaching (sambodhan): - Instilling the understanding of
actuality.
Following (samvartan): - The activity of following the
signals obtained for refinement and completeness is known
as emulation.
Reflection (pratyavartan): - Movement for awakening.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
At the root of study the effect of conscious aspect
(jeevan) is mandatory. The understanding is in
proportion of this effect is incomplete, partial,
complete and perfect. The categories in
humankind are based on these distinctions only.
Human being is understood to be in the form of
progression and awakening.
The awakened tradition is in the from of manav,
The awakening of humankind is in the form of
impressions of conscious aspect (jeevan) and in
the form of culture and civilization as combination
of body and jeevan. This gets evidenced in human
tradition.
Culture (sanskruti): - The work and behaviour for
achieving completeness. The actions towards achievement
of functional-completeness (complete understanding) and
conduct-completeness (tradition of understanding).
The activities towards undivided society.
The expression, communication and exposition of
awakened human being towards undivided society and
The awakening in conscious aspect itself is
righteous impression and unrighteous impression
is due to animal consciousness.
Righteous Impression (susanskar): - The necessary work
and conduct by human being with humanness in, from and
for undivided society itself is righteous impression.
Civilization (sabhyata): - Becoming realized in the form
of universal orderliness. Civilization is manifestation of
The undividedness of society depends on conduct
of humanness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
The conduct of humanness and evidencing resolution,
prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence in human
tradition itself is completeness of awakening. The
impressions, understanding and awakening of jeevans of
individuals, culture of society depends on the norms and
The conviction, desires and thoughts rooted in realization
are needed for achieving humanness and superhumanness, which are righteous impressions only.
Environment and study are the primary causes and helpful
aspects for righteous impressions. The responsibility of
ensuring these is on those with understanding. The
behaviour of justice and inspiration of undivided society
is helpful for development of righteous impressions.
The efforts for making the aspects of behaviour of
justice, thoughts of resolution and evidence of
realization in truth are done by awakened human
beings or by individuals who are with awakened
thoughts.
Naturalness (sahajta): - Coherence in behaviour, thoughts
and realization itself is naturalness.
Awakened-thoughts (sahaj vritti): - The thoughts of
awakened human beings who have achieved naturalness
Behaviour of Justice (nyaya poorna vyavhar): - The
relationships in co-existential orderliness, fulfilling of
Resolved Thoughts (samadhan poorna vichar): - Intuition
of Truth (as a result of realization in coexistence).
Contemplation (chintan): - Perception of Truth, as
evidence of realization.
Realization in Knowledge (gyan-anubhuti): - The natural
evidence of realization in absolute Truth as coexistence.
Chapter-18
For realization in knowledge - the absolute
knowledge of coexistence, absence of otherness,
devotion and potential, ability and receptivity
worthy of love are indispensible - which gets
justice and thoughts of resolution or by having
complete commitment in obedience towards a
human being with complete realization.
Absolute knowledge (nirbhram gyan): - The way
something is, knowing and understanding and making
others understand it in the same way.
Absence of otherness (ananyata): - Continunity of
absolute knowledge.
Devotion (anurag): - Continuity of absence of otherness.
with devotion.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Combined expression of kindness, graciousness and
It is from continuity of love that a human being
upon attaining combined expression of kindness,
graciousness and compassion as attunement and
alignment in coexistence becomes liberated from
The Omnipotence in the form of Space is
immanent to every unit in the same way since time
eternal, realization in it itself is the evidence of
or realization of immanence, where in there is
liberation from conflicts, resentment, fear and
bondage of delusion.
The behaviour of a human being with few human beings
humankind) is from body, pran, mun, vritti, chitta,
are mutual-expectations between few human beings and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
As a result, there is need in humankind for achieving,
experimentation for that is the primary program for
society.
Chapter-18
indispensible functioning and behaviour with body.
buddhi, chitta, vritti and mun get into its effect by
the process of successive manifestation. This gets
evidenced through reflection and manifestation
activities as evidence of realization.
The most evolved part of conscious unit (jeevan)
is atma only, because in atoms of every evolution
stage the nucleus is occupied in activity of
centeredness and all other parts are occupied in
activities of attraction and repulsion.
fraction of his understanding and he uses only a
fraction of result of his actions. The evidence of
realization is in proportion of good-use and
knowledge is achieved through inference. At the
root, the capability of manifesting complete
knowledge is there in atma.
Ignorance, laziness, over-expectation, anger,
agitation, greed, poverty and illness alone are the
causes of misery. The root of entire miseries is in
delusion only.
Manifestation (vyanjana): - The span of effect of
of regression: - first is, un-awakening (lack of
understanding) and second is, wastefulness.
Awakening the unawakened is the most significant
purpose and program of society.
That which one believes is of higher value, he devotes his
body, mind and wealth for that only.
The normalization of disparities in humankind has been
possible only from behaviour of justice and thoughts of
The appraisal-activity from the delusion-state is known as
attachment, appraisal-activity from discerning-state is
known as realization of awakening and appraisal-activity
from non-delusion state is known as description of
actuality.
of view (or holistic view), completeness of view itself is
balance, complete balance itself is knowledge, knowledge
itself is realization in the Omnipresence, realization in
unit (human being with non-delusion) the behaviour of
justice and thoughts of religion are manifested as innatenature.
Understanding is occupied for realization and
realization is occupied for understanding, desire
is occupied for understanding and understanding
is occupied for desire, actions are occupied for
desires and desires are occupied for actions,
utilization is occupied for actions and actions are
occupied for utilization, production is occupied for
activities and activities are occupied for
The gross and subtle forms of nature can be
understood for their duration of activity, impetus,
resolution in thoughts (vritti) and tendencies in
Chapter-18
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
The forms are with distinction of beautiful
(acceptable) and ugly (unacceptable), the activities
are with distinction of material and conscious, the
purpose is with distinction of worldly and
spiritual, knowledge is with distinction of specific
and absolute, actions are with distinction of lawful
or unlawful, language is with distinction of
meaningful and meaningless.
The evolution status of consciousness determines
attachment and resolution, distinction in
attachment and resolution determines needs,
distinction in needs determines extent of hardwork (physical labour), extent of hard-work
(physical labour) determines extent of production,
results, distinction in results alone is potential,
ability and receptivity (of human being),
distinction in potential, ability and receptivity (of
human being) alone are as natural, worldly
(motivated) and instinctual tendencies and these
three tendencies and their combinations alone
characterize the capability of imaging.
The human living that has attained naturalness
has effortlessness and one who is attached to
material world has friction in his efforts.
Human being accepted permanence of existence
upon self-realization and accepted immortality of
self upon understanding of the world and (due to
delusion) accepted impermanence in instinctual
living. Naturalness completely dissolves the
pretentiousness, mysteriousness, ignorance and
delusion. Therefore awakened human being is
liberated from flaws. Along with this, in this state
there is continuous contentment, resolution and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
available means as strength of people and
material-wealth for nurturing and progress of
humanness in tradition. This itself is the cause
and form of fame, which results as orderliness in
human tradition in the form of universality and
in turn undivided society. The acceptance of fame
is in the course of universalizing the awakened
awakening, mutual understanding and following.
Whatever activities are there which oppose
humanness, remaining untouched from them
alone is fame.
The aim of evidencing tradition of humanness
determines endeavours, the distinction of
endeavours determines use and good-use of
resources, the distinction of use and good-use
determines their results, the results determine
purposefulness and it is with purposefulness that
aim is achieved. This alone is the cycle of
Entire means of living are either interior or
everything produced with its use are exterior means.
Interior means (antrang sadhan): - The manifestation of
forces of mun, vritti, chitta, buddhi and atma are interior
means. Entire work and behaviour of human being is in,
The aim of body is to in accordance with mun, the
aim of mun is to be in accordance with vritti, the
aim of vritti is to be in accordance of chitta, the
aim of chitta is to be in accordance with buddhi,
the aim of buddhi is to be in accordance with atma
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Aim (sadhya): - That which is to be achieved.
Means (sadhan): - The method, the path and the objects
required for achieving the aim.
Aspirant (sadhak): - One who deploys the means for
achieving the aim.
The one who remains to be awakened and
contented, only he needs the means for achieving
the remaining awakening.
The completeness of atma is in realization in
coexistence (as transparency of knowledge), the
completeness of buddhi is in achieving the
potential for manifesting the realization in Truth,
the completeness of vritti is in achieving the ability
of religious thoughts (resolved thoughts) and the
completeness of mun is in achieving the receptivity
for behaviour of justce.
its strengths and forces in human tradition as
follows: - There are two activities in atma, four in
buddhi, sixteen in chitta, thirty-six in vritti and
sixty-four in mun (in both sthiti and gati). In this
way, human being has 122 activities in sthiti and
gati, which means as strengths and forces.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
The evidence in the form of realization and bliss
happens in atma. Existence and supreme bliss is
realized in atma.
Existence (astitva): - That which is has the characteristics
of not getting annihilated, as eternal presence.
Supreme-bliss (paramanand): - The transparency of atma
or realization in coexistence.
Bliss (anand): - Self-realization. Accomplishing the
understanding of activity of centeredness.
Dhriti: - Absence of fear.
Dhee: - The potential for receiving and manifesting the
knowledge.
Sankalp: - Continuity of determination.
Shruti: - Articulation of knowledge, wisdom and science
which is there in self as reality.
Smriti: - Presentation of understanding in language again
and again as needed.
Medha: - The activity that bears the art.
Shree: - The acceptance of prosperity.
Santosh: - Lacking the sense of lacking.
Kanti: - The process that emaciates ignorance.
Ichchha: - Awareness towards what is expected and
Vidya: - Accepting something the way it is.
Pragya: - The activity of complete acceptance with
complete inference of actuality.
Keerti: - Continuous activity towards advancement.
Thought (vichar): - The activity of revealing the truth with
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Determination (nishchaya): - Continuity of truthful
thoughts.
Patience (dhairya): - Continuity of thoughts of justice.
Peace (shanti): - Movement in thoughts and behaviour
complete with resolution.
Dum: - The ending of attachment towards deterioration.
Tendency for advancement.
Graciousness (krupa): - Being helpful for awakening of
other human being or being helpful for developing
receptivity in other.
helpful for acquiring ability and receptivity for awakening.
Enthusiasm (utsaha): - Tendency, celebration and
awareness for awakening.
Imagination (kalpana): - Prior form of an acceptance
Reverence (Shraddha): - Movement towards virtuousness.
Forgiveness (kshama): - At the time of helping for
possibility of its misuse.
Devotion (anurag): - Oneness in continuity of absolute
knowledge.
Jati: - The speciality of form, characteristics, innate-nature
and religion.
Selecting that which is pleasant to mun is known
as choice. The choice in mun happens on the basis
of taste.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Coexistence and prosperity is achieved in harmony of
resolved behaviour and production-activities, sensorycontentment is in the harmony of heart and body,
healthiness and physical strength is in harmony of heart
and pran (breathing), happiness is in harmony of mun and
vritti, peace is in harmony of vritti and chitta, contentment
is in harmony of chitta and buddhi, bliss is in harmony of
buddhi and atma and upon realization there is eternal
harmony in atma and coexistence. It is for this reason,
supreme-bliss is natural upon realization and it is in the
form of evidence.
The realization of supreme-bliss itself is the
absolute purpose of human life. Supreme-bliss is
the natural grandeur of realization in coexistence.
This is natural expression of an awakened jeevan.
The definitions of 122 activities of jeevan are as follows: -
Anubhav: - Eternal presence in the form of nature
Praman: - Realized expression, communication and
The four activities of buddhi: -
Bodh: - Clarity of meaning as a result of realization oriented
method. The understanding of reality from realization
rooted method and earnestness for its realization with
conviction. This itself is the power of understanding.
Sankalp: - The expression of having continuity of
determination in justice, religion and truth.
Dhee: - The earnestness for manifestation with joyousness.
The potential for receiving knowledge and influencing
others.
Dhriti: - Absence of fear. Trust in present itself is dhriti.
The tendency for manifesting commitment in truth as
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
The commitment in manifesting understanding of truth or
truthfulness.
The sixteen activities of chitta: - The sixteen functions
in the form of contemplation and imaging.
Revelation in language of the knowledge of actuality.
Expression holistic view of actuality.
(iii) Communication and expression of realities of
Smriti: - The presentation of understanding again and
again as needed. The acceptance of realities indicated by
language upon their direct perception along with imaging,
whose evidence is in the form of tradition.
Medha: - The activity that holds and carries the memories.
The activity that does direct perception of kala (art)
Kala: - Beauty with utility.
The combined accomplishment (exposition) of utility and
art as talent, which is acceptance in jeevan-activities with
direct perception aligned with wisdom and science.
Kanti: - Kanti means light. The expression of purpose in
the form of possibility is light.
Nirikshan: - The combination of contemplation and
imaging activities of realization rooted holistic view
(darshan) and its expression.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
Attraction, replulsion and centering motions and
their assessment.
The expression of innate-nature or expected
behaviour.
Santosh, Shree
(10) Shree: - Prosperity, or acceptance of continuity of
prosperity.
Santosh: - Lacking the sense of lacking. The earnestness
for becoming realized with science and wisdom while doing
more production than needs.
(11) Prem: - Realization in completeness
Combined expression of kindness, graciousness and
Living in completeness and its continuity
(12) Ananyata: - The mutual complementariness in human
The continuity in authenticity and resolution.
The activity that is helpful in awakening of
(13) Vatsalya: - The continuity of providing nurturing and
protection towards realization of all-round resolution.
(14) Sahajta: - Clarity and authenticity
The coherence in behaviour, customs, thoughts and
qualitative-progress towards conduct-completeness.
The movement towards awakening and authenticity
and its continuity.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
(16) Pujyata: - Being active for qualitative-progress and
The 36 Activities of Vritti
Vidya: - The way a reality is, i.e. the purpose for which a
and accepting that in the same way.
Pragya: - Refined consciousness
The activity of inferring and being realized in
actuality
The conception and realization is in objective and
subjective truth. Bodh and realization is in absolute
Keerti: - Progressiveness towards awakening.
Vichar: - The activity that expositions truth with
spontaneity.
Nishchaya: - Continuity of thoughts of truthfulness
Movement towards aim, direction and existential
Continuity of thaoughts of truth.
Dhairya: - Continuity of thoughts of justice.
Authentic presentation about excellence and easiness
about awakening and progress in present context.
Exposition, communication and expression of
Chapter-18
Shanti: - The result of thoughts of resolution.
The unopposedness of desires and thoughts.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
The ability of instilling understanding in accordance
instilling receptivity in other.
The activity of instilling receptivity in accordance
with understanding.
(10) Karuna: - Inspiring other for progress.
receptivity in other.
(11) Dum: - The ending of attachment towards regression.
Liberation from delusion, fear and wastage and
commitment in awakened nature.
advancement, remaining unaffected from the possibility
of its misuse.
progression and evolution.
Dedication in production activities
Commitment in behaviour and conduct of
Participation in orderliness and holistic orderliness
(14) Utsaah: - The courage for upliftment
Awareness of orderliness
(15) Kritagyata: - Acceptance of whoever has been helpful for
attaining higher-status (progress and awakening).
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(16) Saumyata: - The restraint of self from own desire.
Being established in natural-status of being, or being
(17) Gaurav: - Following upon acceptance (understanding).
(18) Saralta: - The way of thinking and behaviour that is devoid
of conceit and expresses the actuality itself is saralta.
(19) Vishvas: - The fulfilling of values intrinsic to relationship.
Understanding of holistic orderliness, expression of
resolution and its expression.
helpfulness and complementariness.
(21) Satya: - That which is sensible, present and knowable in
the same way forever.
The eternal presence of authenticity towards
physiochemical formation-deformation.
Eternal presence of absolute truth, subjective-truth
and objective truth of existence.
(22) Dharma: - Innateness itself is dharma.
That from which one cannot be separated from is its
(23) Nyaya: - The activities carried out for nurturing,
strengthening and appraisal of humanness.
Recognition of relationships, fulfilling of values,
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(24) Samvedna: - Movement towards completeness.
The thoughts, work and behaviour performed with
the three laws (laws of natural domain, laws of
conscious domain and laws of social domain)
Longing towards progress and awakening as inquiry,
expectation and want.
Spontaneous purposefulness and process in jeevan
for believing what has been known, recognizing what
has been believed and fulfilling what has been
The activity of receiving external signals from all
sensory-organs.
Earnestness towards orderliness.
(25) Tadatmayata: - The conclusion arrived towards eternal
aspects.
(26) Saahas: - The behavioural activities with tolerance and
(27) Sanyam: - Being restrained in thoughts, behaviour and
occupation of humanness.
(28) Niyam: - The inclination and evidence of doing
participation while living in orderliness in restrained and
spontaneous way.
getting justice to others.
(30) Dheerta: - Commitment and perseverence towards justice.
(32) Samveg: - The motion obtained from union.
(33) Jati: - The speciality of form, characteristics, innate-nature
and religion. Variety by grouping commonness in physical
aspect.
(35) Tushti: - Attaining the six virtuous characteristics with
understanding and evidencing resolution and prosperity
in family. Participation in undivided society and universal
orderliness itself is the form of continuity of tushti.
(36) Pushti: - Continuous appraisal of tushti from scrutinizing
and examining. The continuity of completeness itself is
The Sixty four (64)
form of choice and taste
Many kinds of atoms in physical nature.
(34) Kaal: - Duration of activity.
Chapter-18
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Bhakti: - The activities of becoming liberated from fear
and liberation from frictions in living.
The combined expression, communication and
exposition of devotion and service.
Devotion is expression of completeness in
Tanmayata: - Tanmayata is becoming totally affected in
the effect of awakening for holistic commitment in definite
purpose and direction.
Mamta: - The activities of nurturing and protecting with
culimination of affinity.
The acceptance of other being a reflection of self and
its continuity.
Samman: - The acceptance of personality and talent and
its balanced expression.
The acceptance of excellence of personality and
talent, its continuity and clarity.
Sauhard: - The way a concept, experience, memory and
revelation is accepted, the activity of presenting it in exactly
the same way.
Sneha: - Unopposedness in behaviour of justice.
for others and becoming happy with that.
Chapter-18
Udarta: - Happily offering and devoting means of living
in the form of body, mind and wealth for awakening, bodily
health and prosperity of others.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Spontaneous meeting in, from and for contentment
and its continuity.
Nishtha: - Continuous efforts for achieving and realizing
definite conception with memory for obtaining and
Putra-Putree: - Father is one who accepts having caused
the body and who fulfils his complementariness for
The acceptance for providing nourishment and
protection
Accepting self to be responsible for providing
nourishment and protection of children and for
making them capable of doing production.
Accepting self to be capable of providing education
and values to children.
Accepting self to be capable of provisioning the entire
knowledge.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
(10) Anurag: - The inundation in non-delusion (the acceptance
of possibility of unsurpassing experience)
in relationships.
Chapter-18
(11) Sathi: - The individual who has attained all-round
One who is in the seer-status in spontaneous way.
The one who is fulfilling his duties and
responsibilities upon knowing, believing and
(12) Dayitva: - The behaviour of complete manners with
experience of values in relationships of behaviour,
occupation and orderliness.
(13) Sahyogi: - Following the originator, guide or inspiringperson for achieving all-round resolution, moving with
acceptance, being helpful in production.
(14) Kartaya: - Fulfilling of values in relationships and
associations obtained at every level.
(15) Svayatta: - The experience of prosperity itself is svayatta.
(16) Samriddhi: - Production more than definite needs itself is
(18) Svasthya: - The work-organs and sense-organs being in
the state of working in accordance with mun and
The sense-organs and work-organs being in the state
of pulsation and vivaciousness.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(19) Priya: - Conducive closeness to sense-organs (hearing,
(20) Pravrittiyan: - The conscious impetus for realizing
accomplishment and purpose.
thinking, desiring, convicton and authenticity for
manifestation of understanding. The mindset of
humanness in behaviour.
(21) Ullas: - Articulation. Presentation and movement with
transparency towards upliftment.
(22) Haas: - Movement towards purpose and direction of
humanness with resolution, joy and smile.
(23) Sheel: - Making the grandeur of awakening indicate
authenticity in all aspects, angles, directions and
perspectives is known as sheel.
The traits of being with complete manners.
(24) Sankoch: - Presenting what is not acceptable with
(25) Guru: - The human being who instills the answers of all
inquiries and questions in the form of resolution by way of
educational impressions, conforming to destined order is
(26) Pramanik: - The one who holds and carries the evidences
of existence, knowledge of self (jeevan) and conduct of
humanness in his living as experimentation, behaviour and
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(27) Shishya: - The individual who presents himself for fulfilling
the purpose of awakening to receive and accept educational
impressions, who has accepted the relationship of Guru.
(28) Jigyasu: - Expressing strong desire for receiving education
devoid of delusion and with knowledge of self (jeevan).
(29) Bhai: - Born to the same mother is called as bhai (brother)
or having accepted other person to be like bhai (brother).
(30) Pragati: - Participation in orderliness of humanness and
participation in family-rooted self-organized orderliness.
The expectation, procedure and evidence of
primary.
(31) Bahan: - Born to the same mother or one accepted to be
(32) Unnati: - The expectation, procedure and evidence of
Awakening and movement towards its continuity.
(33) Sveekruti: - The activity of realizing as manifestation of
all signals in realization rooted influence.
(34) Swagat: - Conception, the acceptance activity for
The readiness for acceptances and rejections in accordance
with Law, Justice, Resolution, Truth
The readiness of mun, vritti and chitta in accordance with
wisdom and science.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(35) Ruchi: - The recognition of results of body (orderly
formation from chemical substances) when united with
physiochemical objects.
(36) Pehchaan: - The acceptance of results of union of necessary
substances and objects with sense-organs.
(39) Yatitv: - Entire work and behaviour done for continuity of
awakening, non-delusion and getting emancipated with
(40) Satitv: - The work and behaviour done for becoming
awakened, getting emancipated with satva (conviction),
understanding, practices and liberation from delusion.
Satva means understanding with commitment, which
itself is emanicipation.
(44) Sanrakshan: - Unboundedness. It is in terms of easiness.
The Activities of Sense-organs and Work-organs
The objects which can bear less weight or stress than
the sense-organs of touch.
The objects which bear weight by getting
compressed.
Holistic view of Human Behaviour
Chapter-18
(46) Kathor: - The objects which bear more weight or stress
than the sense-organs of touch. Bearing the weight with
pain for completeness.
May Earth be Heaven, May humans be divine.
May religion get realized, May Goodness arise always.
Following literature of Madhyasth
Darshan originally presented by Shree A.
Darshan (Holistic view)
Manav Vyavhar Darshan (also available in English)
Shastra (Thesis)
Avartansheel Artha-shastra
Others