existential anthropocentric thinking

Simple

intermediary philosophy coexistence

Life Science -
an introduction

A. King Cobra
Shri Bhajanashram, Amarkantak
District – Anuppur, M. Q. (India) - 484886


<newpage>

Publisher :
Jeevan Vidya Prakashan, Divyapath Sansthan

Amarkantak, District - Anuppur (M.P.), India, 484886
७०-.वां५५३-००॥.00 | #09त५५4-.29/-006

Founder and author:
A. King Cobra
All rights reserved with Divyapath Sansthan

Contribution amount: Rs 50/-

Previous versions: 999, 200, 2008, 200, 207
Printing : April - 2023

॥98॥0 : 978-8-956883-3-3

Honest Website : 547444.80॥588॥.05
Printed Book Receipt 000/05909558-[04/॥.0/6
॥॥ ४४७०॥आ४635 : ५४४४५७.५७४५४.००॥॥

Good use policy:

This publication is in the sense of 'all good wishes' and has no commercial purpose. its use and
Copies are available for private study. Also used in any sense (copying, printing, etc.)
Written before “Divyapath Sansthan”, Amarkantak, District Anuppur (M.P.) India – 484886
It is mandatory to take permission. It is expected that when using these concepts elsewhere

Printer: Yugbodh Digital Printers,

Samta Colony, Raipur, Chhattisgarh. - 49200

Full citation (reference) of the book will be given. Please maintain the sanctity of darshan.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 6) Introduction

Role

It is not certain when humans came to this earth. Is he human or not? there is no doubt about this
Would have happened; Because we are the living proof of being human. But what is a human being? We still don't know about this
had no idea. Man has spent centuries searching for himself and trying to know himself. our own
Man has longed to see and understand the inner nature. Human to know your introduction
Is thirsty and has been trying for thousands of years. Today there is a lot of chemical and physical research in the world.
But nothing is known about humans yet, that is, humans have not been studied.

A. Nagraj is a person just like us; He was among the solitaries of Amarkantak, a famous pilgrimage site in India.
They came to search for the human form in the lush green lap of Mekal mountain, the source of Narmada River.
Leaving his lush green village Agrahar in Mysore province, Shri Nagaraj, now called Babaji, asks some questions.
Came to find answers. Dense forest, extreme cold, rain, wild animals, no food and all
He continued doing research despite living with inconveniences. Shankaracharya Shri Chandrashekhar of India's famous Sringeri Math
Shri Nagraj ji, initiated by Bharti, continued performing penance as per tradition. In the course of your research
He attained the state of Samadhi. But as he did not get answers to his questions, he said "restraint".
Did. After exercising restraint, Babaji understood the complete coexistence. coexistence of body and life
Human beings also came to be understood in a combined form, the all-pervasive entity in existence which we call as God, Satya Brahma etc.
Calling from Him, the existence of inanimate and conscious nature was experienced in Him. understand the entire system of existence
He saw that the entire nature is immersed in power (God), wet and surrounded.

On the one hand, he had the country's famous scientist Dr. C.V. Raman, Nuclear Commission
People like Chairman Dr. Bhabha also came and on the other hand, villagers who were called ordinary illiterate also came. year
From 1976 he started narrating his experience to the people who came to him. he told the truth
Started saying. Some people understood the truths of life that emanated from his mouth.
Studies have been started in camps in the name of “Jeevan Vidya”. We requested Babaji
That they should speak from their own mouth as they understand existence and life so that an authentic document can be written for human beings.
Be available to caste. Then Babaji stayed in Aanwari Ashram near Charama in Bastar region of Madhya Pradesh.
Jeevan Vidya was presented for three days.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction () Introduction

Video recording of this presentation was done and so that this message could reach everyone, Babaji's
All the friends thought that the address should be published in book form as it is. attention to this purpose
Babaji's address on 'Jeevan Vidya' is presented in book form. this book today
We all are feeling extremely happy while handing it over to mankind. this book to human
It will be useful in removing the illusion about existence about the self - with this hope, faith.

Rajan Sharma
Nandini Nagar,(Durg)
Fagun Purnima 2 March, 4999


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction (Ta Option)

Option

Instability, uncertainty based physical-chemical object centered thoughts versus human beings through scientific method
Could not be studied. Human beings cannot be studied even through mystery based idealistic thinking method.
Found. In both types of debates, human has been called a living being.

As an alternative, philosophy mediated by existential human-centered thinking method, in coexistenceism
Recognized and made humans to be in the state of knowledge.

According to the intermediate philosophy, man is the knower, the one who knows and accepts the existence of co-existence.
Worthy thing i.e. the complete thing to know is the philosophy and knowledge along with it is the knowledge of life.
The method of proving coexistence along with knowledge of humane conduct has become studyable.
Study in the form of existential human-centered thinking knowledge, intermediate philosophy, co-existence science
For has been presented by me to human beings.

Before existential human centered thinking, my (A. Nagaraj, Agrahar Nagaraj, District Hassan,
Karnataka State, India) Initiation took place through spiritualistic knowledge, Vedic thoughts and spontaneous worship.

According to Vedanta, the knowledge “Brahm is true, the world is false” while the origin of the living world was said to be from Brahma.

Worship :-..In reference to Gods and Goddesses.

Karma;- All the deeds received in heaven (in the form of language)

In Manu Dharma Shastra:- Daily work of four Varnchar Ashrams is proposed.

Among the rituals:- Sixteen types of rituals from pregnancy to death rites.
Valid and their programs are there.

After studying all this a question arose in my mind that -

How is the living world arising from Satyam Jnana Anantam Brahma false? of the Vedic scholars and scholars of the time
In order to be curious with me :-

In Samadhi one got the assurance of knowing the unknown. Sadhana, Samadhi, based on the support of scriptures
Approval was given to complete the restraint work. I have experienced complete existence in a state of meditation, samadhi and samyama.
Complete understanding achieved through study, experience method as co-existence, living through which
As a result, an alternative appeared in the form of intermediate philosophy co-existence Vajgajamaya.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction(s) Options

0.

According to idealistic scriptures and mystical God-centered thinking knowledge and tradition - knowledge unexpressed
indescribable

According to Madhyaya Darshana - knowledge expressed through verbal study is understandable and can be proved through practical method.
It became clear as to be accessible to all.

According to materialism based on instability and uncertainty, science is considered as knowledge in object-centric thinking.
In which it has been said that the rules are man-made. coexistence as an alternative
According to existential human centered thinking knowledge, existence is stable, development and awakening are certain.
The whole rule is to be natural and to remain.

Existence is not just physical and chemical but physical, chemical and life things are included in the broader matter.
The present is indivisible, this is the scripture sutra “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence”.

verification

From where I started my physical journey, my ancestors were called Vedamurthy. Vedas and Vedas in every home and village
Vedanta, Upanishads and philosophy related to thoughts continued to be heard in the form of language, sound and tune.
In the family tradition, worship, adoration and praise continued as per the Vedas.

In our family tradition, top class scholars, service-oriented and hard-working people, practice and work habits.
It was easy because of which I accepted hard work and service tendencies. question mark on scholarship
are.

The first question that arose was -
How can the origin of the world and the living beings from Brahman Truth be false?
other question -
How is Brahma the cause of bondage and salvation?
Third question -
Word proof or bearer of the word, carrier proof?
Object sentence proof or object sentence evidence?
Scriptural evidence or pioneer evidence?


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction (Sh) Option

].

Another question arose in the expedient situation

Fourth question -
After independence in India, the Constituent Assembly was formed in which nation, nationality, national character
There should be acceptance in the Constitution that people's representatives are eligible, despite not having any formula.
How is the vote-note (money) alliance giving mandate and public representative?
Secularism in the Constitution - one sentence and with it the protection of many castes, sects and communities
To be mentioned.
Equality in the Constitution – one sentence, along with the mention of reservation and its meaning in the Constitution
To have a process.
Democracy - In governance, there should be an alliance of vote notes in the election process of public representatives.

What kind of democracy is this?

To get free from the tangle of these questions, the then scholars, Veda idols and respected sages and Maharishis

By suggestion -

() Samadhi was the only way to know the unknown which I accepted.

(2) Accepted Amarkantak as a favorable place for spiritual practice.

(3) Started Sadhana Karma from 950 AD.
Sadhana reached maturity in the 960s.

(4) In the year 970, the state of attaining Samadhi came to be accepted. my hope in samadhi state
Thoughts and desires remained silent. In such a situation, the phenomenon of the unknown becoming known is also zero.
did you understand. This state of Sahaja Sadhana is maintained for twelve (2) to eighteen (8) hours every day.
Kept happening.
I accepted the self-spontaneous system of Samadhi, Dharana, Meditation and Samyama. abstinence after two years
Accepting the proof of attaining samadhi by being there. Even in the process of achieving self-control through samadhi 2
It took hours to 8 hours. As a result, the entire existence continues to co-exist naturally.
I experienced. Whose Vaddamaya as “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence” Shastra

has appeared.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction (J) Option

2.

43.

44.

5.

Coexistence:- It is understood that the entire inanimate and conscious being is present and constantly present in the larger object.
In co-existence:- In the form of evolution in the atom, the hungry and indigestion atoms and in the atom itself
It was understood to exist and exist as 'life' in the form of evolutionarily satisfied atoms.

It is only in co-existence that it is understood to be in the form of a constituted atomic conscious unit – “life”.
In co-existence itself:- From hungry and indigestible atomic molecules and vital cells, the entire physical and chemical
To be clear about the creations of life and the creation of earth and many earths made up of atomic molecules.
did you understand.

In existence on the earth in the form of physical structure, life cells including chemical system process are formed through yogic method.
After becoming prosperous in the form of complete forest plants, living beings come from life cells only.
It is understood that the bodies are composed and the human body is also composed and has traditions.
Came.

Only in co-existence:- Human tradition was understood to be in the combined form of body and life.
In coexistence, from, for :- Coexistence is understood to be effective continuously. this is the routine
did you understand.

Destiny method:- Coexistence only by natural method:-

(0) Four states of existence
0 state of matter
0 vital state
0 organism state
0. state of knowledge
And
() Four terms in existence
0 Pranapada
0 misconception
0 God position

0. divine position


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction (Ja) Option

(.#) And

0 development order, development

0 awakening order, awakening

And awakening, spontaneous human tradition, participation in the overall system along with humanity, eternal glory.
It made sense to be. I considered this to be the most auspicious sutra and accepted it to be a wish of good fortune for all human beings.
As a result, consciousness development, values, education, constitution, conduct system, simple sutra interpretation in front of human beings.
Have presented.

The land should be heaven, man should be god,
May religion be successful, may everyday be auspicious.

- A. King Cobra


<newpage>



<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction and Index

index
chapter page number
, Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction
2. Life Science 7
3. Nature of Life 36

4. Question-Answer 24


<newpage>



<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction.

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Human brothers! I have willingly listened to the past Vedic mysteries from myself. someone else's in this
There is no pressure. After understanding I had a wish. How should humans be on this earth? His
Therefore, I found an inspiration within myself that “Land should be heaven, man should be god!” May religion be successful, daily good
yes."
May the earth go to heaven, and may man go to the gods.
May religion be successful and may it always be auspicious

I want to present before you the background of how it came into existence. This body journey is a hard work,
Started in a sevakari, Vedic religious, Aryashrevadi family. It is known to all of you that every
A human child is born from the womb of one mother or the other; must be a follower of some religion or the other
Is; Some state constitution continues to be accepted. Is dedicated to the education received in tradition
And follows the path of academics. This has been a matter of tradition till today. in the same way i
Wherever I started, in whatever family I started, I went through the same thing. traditional tradition with
Talks like sit with this person, don't sit with them, do this, don't do this, all these things have been going on since the beginning.
Our mind is not filled with stereotypes. This is a matter of childhood only. First of all it is a matter of childhood (he is a child)
Even elderly people kept thinking like this. After a few days, they also started changing. Look, posture, posture, frown, everything
Started changing. I felt that our elders are not happy with me. This became our first reason for the question. but
How to please brother! Even if we do as he says, we start imposing criteria. all day all
Are they not happy at times? This is how it appears to me. The main thing is from here. When I started feeling that
Our elders tell us to do this or don't do that, whether we do it ourselves or not but every day
Not everyone is happy all the time. Whereas scholars of Vaddaya more Aryasreya than him cannot be found anywhere.
After achieving all such achievements, we decided that we should not follow the traditions by any means.
Not only. This started becoming a kind of promise and another reason was added that our elders understood us.
Couldn't get it. Overall, the more times they failed, the more our ego increased. this is ours
The talk of increasing ego and not joining the conventions, all this went together. in this order
What should we do if we leave? Now the elders started claiming that they did not understand the Vedas and Vedanta.


<newpage>

2 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Don't understand, don't understand the scriptures. As self-proclaimed, it defies every stereotype, everything
To what extent is this okay? Started worrying about this issue. This causes another question for us
Made. What do I do now? Now there was no other way, so I understood Vedanta according to the scriptures.
Whom he considered supreme.

The first land is Vedanta, i.e. the practice of accepted Vedic thought. According to Vedic thought, karma is that thing
They believe in the one who leads to heaven and call everyone else something else. Worship is called that in which
To become Indra or other Gods and Goddesses, the undertaking for this is called Veda-worship. third top
In part it is said that knowledge is supreme. What is knowledge? When asked about Brahmagyan What is Brahma? if asked
You will not understand. If we don't understand, how will we overcome? What the elders have said, "Do, don't do" is the same method.
Will overcome. What to do? What will happen? You will get this in Samadhi. Samadhi provides answers to all questions
We got this assurance from the elders. On this basis I strengthened my mind that whatever happens
One has to see the state of Samadhi many times and nothing else is possible. nor do we have any claims
Yes, there is no point in not doing, there is no point in doing either. Once we have our questions
Answer should be given. After listening to Vedanta thoroughly, first question arose: - What is bondage and salvation?
They say that due to illusion we remain in bondage. Moksha means the merging of the soul with Brahma.
Where did the soul come from? So it is said – Brahma himself resides in the form of soul in the hearts of living beings. When
To free the soul, i.e., to be free from the ups and downs, i.e., from heaven and hell, the soul must enter Brahma.
Merger has to happen, so why did this Brahma sit in the form of soul in the hearts of living beings? when life first existed
At that time there was no soul in him, then what was the need for Brahma to enter inside him? like ours
Like Vitandavad happened. Because we did not mix our sound with the sound of the elders, we were called Vitandavadi.
Gave. We said that what you people think is right but you will present the answer to it. but
Answers to these questions were not found. After that it was said that you will get the answer to this only in Samadhi.
What do we do now? We gradually got ready to attain Samadhi. Our mind is slowly formed
Stayed. In this way it started from the year 944 and by the year 946 we were ready for Samadhi. That
With the passage of time and a certain situation, the possibility of achieving self-rule in the country became stronger. It is the year 947
The transfer of power took place as we had expected. There were many great thinkers in that too, the elders
They were thoughtful and kept listening to his words and there was spiritualism in them too till the day of success. in that
We too suffered. After that there was another hope that now we will have a constitution. maybe right in that


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 3

There will be a system for human evaluation. For my part, I kept thinking spontaneously that the Constitution
You will get guidance from somewhere.

When the Constitution was drafted, I carefully read the accounts that appeared in the newspapers in this regard.
Kept listening and trying to understand. After listening to all the things till 950, in our mind
It came to light that a true human being cannot be evaluated under this Constitution. The basis for this was that
There is no human character explained in it which we can call national character. what did you do now
go? There was already a crisis, Vedanta and Samadhi, all answers are to be found in Samadhi only. this question also
Connected to. The answer to this will also be found in Samadhi itself, in which one can sit with an elder or with scholars.
There is no need to argue. If you get it then you will get the answer to everything, if you don't get it then this body
We decided that the journey is dedicated to enlightenment. One more person got ready for this
She is my wife. We consider Amarkantak as such a place, the place of life, the origin place of Narmada ji.
Everyone used to listen. On the basis of that sacred thought, why not go there and make this last effort?
After thinking, we came to Amarkantak. After coming here, we started doing sadhana using Aagam Tantropasana method. This
A method of Samadhi has been described in the method, in which all the Gods and Goddesses are worshiped in every part of their own body.
It remains to be seen. It's a matter of seeing with your own imagination. It is a matter of worshiping him. Just like that
Whatever you imagine in your body parts is a god, that is a god. Name of this action.
given “Trust” | At its root is the formula “Devobhutva devan yajet: that is, you yourself become the form of the gods
Worship the gods. This thing was told to me. with him just as honestly
We were ready to do it. He kept doing whatever he could. one day after doing this
It came to pass that we became free from the company of Gods and Goddesses. It was the awareness of “I am”. we have and
There was no idea.

There was no thought that we had to get anything, there was no thought that we had anything,
There was no thought that we have to do something. A new thing, a small thing, this incident happened. this incident
This situation remained the same for a few hours after it happened. After that, as soon as we became aware of the body, we became aware of time.
Then we realized that we were not aware of these three. We didn't even have an idea. so me
I believed. After this happened, I started thinking that I had reached a state of samadhi. of that tomb
Kept repeating the situation every day. Repeated for several hours and waited for the answer to our questions


<newpage>

4 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Now we will get it, now we will get it, but even after waiting for years, these questions did not get answered. this second
Failure occurred. What do we do now? The answer was not found by understanding Vedanta, the answer was not found after Samadhi,
Even the foremost scholars in our family are not able to tell anything? Where to go now? now on someone
There was no room for blaming, we remained in this trap in our own way. One day it seemed that we
Actually, we had heard about Samadhi, we also believed that Samadhi had happened, but Samadhi was not the same.
How will we be able to tell this to others? How can we consider this as strong? What should we consider as proof? to tell in this
If there is no such thing then how will we present the proof. When this curiosity deepened, we realized that
No, to try this we did an exercise called restraint. This advice was also received from our ancestors.
These are mentioned in the Patanjali Yoga Sutra in which it is written 'Dharana Dhyana Samadhi Trayamekatratvatat Samyamah |
Any intelligent person can read and see this. Whatever we have written about restraint
Not accepted. In our own way we created a picture of restraint, created a method. that way we restrain
Did. As a result of exercising restraint, little by little existence began to appear in front of us.
To see means to understand.

We have seen step by step what processes it goes through from an atom to the huge earth.
Have seen it properly, let us make you understand it. This situation established itself in me. atoms with this
Saw an 'atom of life' in the queue. That "atom of life" in me, in you, in the man born today,
In the relaxed position of the body, all these remain the same. This realization came that even after leaving the body, life continues and the body
Also lives with. Why does it remain with the body? If asked about it, I will tell further in context. This
In place we saw that through the body “life seeks to authenticate itself in human tradition.
This is its only formula. What does this life want to prove? The answer was this; life first
Wants to live, after that wants to be happy while living. happy as well as certified
Wants to happen.

These are three situations. The first condition of this: the desire to live is fulfilled in the living being itself.
As soon as they want to be happy and want to be certified, this can be accomplished only in the human category and
It doesn't get completed anywhere. I have seen this very well. I found this a place of great satisfaction. His
After that, I also saw the formula for being happy - 'Living in a system with solutions'.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 5

The inanimate world, which we call the state of matter and life, has solid, liquid and rare forms.
And all the creations made up of life cells have at their origin a combination of many chemicals.
Have experienced. Whatever else mankind has to do, they will continue to do it. So of all the things created from them
It was only by chance that I noticed the overall body composition. These creatures are made from physical and chemical substances only.
And the human body is also formed. So the difference I saw between these animals and human bodies is that the human body
It is only in creation that the Medhas Tantra becomes fully prosperous. To be prosperous means that life is multifaceted.
Medhas Tantra remains capable of proving itself. I have seen this accurately.

After seeing all this, I felt that every living being is in its own system, explained, defined in itself.
Similarly, human being is also defined and explained as a system with substance and by living in this manner
We also came to know that it becomes possible for a man to be happy. Along with this, those answers were also found.
What really is salvation? What is bondage? The answer to what we came for will be found in this place.
Went. How did you get it? Life animates every human body; What is to be certified? First
Told that happiness has to be certified. What has to happen to prove happiness? to be wise
Does matter. Considering it as human, it will prove the system and prove happiness and in another way
Will not be able to do it. I myself kept doing sadhana, everyone kept saying that with great rules, with great restraint, with great precision.
lives. People used to come in large numbers to see us, but I am testifying about the sadhana.
There was no restraint in our mentality in the initial situation. until we reach samadhi
Till now we have no mental restraint. The only thing that remained with us was that we have to do sadhana and no one else
We cannot do absurd work. But there is no such thing that absurd things do not arise in our mind.
Was. On this basis I can say with certainty that until a person becomes samadhi (samadhi)
There is no law in existence to prevent absurd thoughts from occurring. Man himself does not want absurdity
Things happen, come to mind; No one wants to do sadhana. Even if I didn't want to, it would still happen
Stayed. This is the crisis that all seekers face. As long as the seeker can bear it, he can bear it when
Can't bear it, can't bear it, that's all I can say, this is its review.

Now that the answer to this issue has been found, what is bondage and salvation? Bondage is ignorance and illusion. foolishness
What is it that we creatures live like animals? How can the activities of animals be accepted as evidence for humans?
Accept this as proof and if humans are inclined to live accordingly, then this is what will happen to the human race.


<newpage>

6 Life Sciences: An Introduction

There is confusion. Tradition forces us to live ignorantly. Its proof that orgasm
Psychology, profit-mad sociology and profit-mad economics. The man walking in the middle of this
We bless the child to be very good, excellent, cultured, pleasant and polite. Now
Where is the coordination between this and that? What we teach and the blessings we give to children
Where is his coordination?

The second question, national character, was also answered. What did you get? each one in existence with its essence
Is in order. Participates in the overall system. This thing found a way to enter humans also.
Found the definition of human. “Humanity” is the form of behavior of an awakened human being. that work-
We clarify the behaviour, explain it in practice, this is called sociology or constitution.
Is. We understood that the basic objective of sociology is to understand human behavior. This
Well, we got the answer on both the issues that there will be human code of conduct from the Constitution. of the constitution
In form we can recognize the national character. After this, if we become free from illusion then we can live like a human being.
This is freedom from illusion, this is salvation. Neither turning ice into stone, nor turning stone into water, nor
There is no need to give conventional blessings, nor to perform any miracles, nor to show any accomplishment. no one in existence
Whether it is a success or a miracle, we have seen it with accuracy. groaning between curse and grace
There are millions and crores of people even today. So there is only one answer to this, the moment we move towards awakening.
If we take even one step, in that moment all the curses, heat and sins are destroyed. they have no stigma
Does not remain. How he answered it mathematically is as follows. Like we do math a thousand times
We keep doing wrong but when we learn to do right then it becomes right for the whole life. Until
Keep making mistakes, till then those who make a mistake once do not make the same mistake again, only the second mistake.
We do. We can also see this as a phenomenon if a mathematics question is given to crore children.
go; If you give the correct answer then everyone gets the same. If they are wrong then it is worth crores. every normal person
Can also survey it. In this way we found another formula. we humans are one true mistake
Many in

When saw existence; We found a formula full of glory. There are only two types of things in existence.
First, those that can be counted one by one can be called nature. the second one which spread everywhere
Every person can understand what has happened in a moment. Everything is soaked in this other thing.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 7

Is there, is surrounded, is submerged. It can be called comprehensive. Each object (entity) is of two types - an inanimate,
The second consciousness. Chaitanya Vastu means - Jiva Koti, Manava Koti and Jada Vastu means -
Material state, vital state. It includes all the minerals, soil, metals and life cells that can be formed and decayed.
Are. All these things are wet, surrounded and immersed in the wider object, I have described this with accuracy.
have seen. There is no provision in existence for separating individual objects from the broader object. In existence
Man cannot create that which is not provided for.

Whatever provision there is in existence, human beings can do anything except its utility towards misuse.
If he achieves anything, he gets nothing except destruction. For example, we spent a lot of money for the war.
By using this thing, we could not do anything other than destroying the earth and humans.
Perhaps all the scientists are slowly understanding this. If this had been understood earlier then humans would have
Could have been prosperous and happy. After many ghats the river comes to the sea, perhaps this was its destiny.
First man had to come amidst the mysterious i.e. idealism, he had to accept the relief he got from it.
Man hasn't had enough. Again came under the grip of materialism. The relief and happiness that came in this too,
Not enough in terms of prosperity. This is about the pain that is there today. We are completely relieved from both the places.
If not found, it is natural that a third step is needed.

In this manner, the answer to bondage and salvation became - "If a human being is intelligent, then he will not be free from bondage."
attains liberation.” How can you be sensible now? For this, when I saw what I saw, what in me
Confused? 'In me' I researched, 'In me' I researched then found out that there is no reason for our bond
Not visible; So why not create this situation in everyone. How would it feel to be born into everyone? like then
Told you earlier. The land will become heaven, man will become gods, all religions will succeed, eternal
Only good will happen. Every day will be auspicious as a tradition. In this we again started examining ourselves, are we
Will you be able to convey all this? Do people need it or not?

All this started after that. So the main issue which convinced me is that the human rights in the Constitution
Can include human code of conduct. thereby proving human national character
“Existence” I understand.will be. In this place we are sure. I am an expert myself and am also a proof. 
It has come, I will explain it to you and I have understood “life” and I will explain it to you. "Humanity
'Perfect conduct' I have understood and will explain it to you. If these three facts are understood, then


<newpage>

8 Life Sciences: An Introduction

We became wise. What happened when you became wise? By being wise one becomes free from bondage. How?
bond? Freed from the bondage of illusion. What did the elders say earlier that there will be freedom from traffic? traffic
There is no connection with salvation. No one has gone and no one will come. All that is exists.

Life exists even after death and life exists even while the body is moving. burning coal
It remains in various forms even after. These physicists and chemists must have understood this. No
If you have to understand then everyone will have to understand, it is a compulsion. In this way 'wisdom' is understood. basically
The object is not destroyed. On the same basis, I have wished that if the land remains healthy, human
If one can live within the system, this is the basis of universal daily prosperity. By this method the mangal
The main issue in supporting the desire that arose in my mind is to conduct myself humanely in my entire existence.
Is. A greater favor than this would be to human beings without injuring the earth, without tearing their stomachs, without destroying them.
The method to stay on this earth for a long time also comes from this understanding. If the earth itself
Is able to control herself.

Whatever unexpected event has happened to humans in past history till date, all those events have been due to foolishness.
It has happened since. As much as there was talk of hurting the earth, the earth's stomach was torn apart, the earth
Caused fever, created many types of deformities on the earth's surface. As a result the river,
All these drains have been ruined, they have ruined the air and water and the people who are suffering because of this are us and you.
It is known to everyone. As long as the earth continues to suffer, all the plants and animals living on the earth will
All living beings and humans will surely suffer. By injuring the earth, man should remain healthy and happy.
You can imagine how well the hypothesis was thought out. Now the next good thing is this
It turns out that if we stop harassing the earth then there is a point to be assured that this earth
The wealth present on the earth's surface is in itself sufficient for the survival of the people of this earth.
Mistake, crime, treason, rebellion, all these things are the fault of human ignorance. This is not a product of wisdom
This is the testimony of this: humans are unbalanced, the earth is unbalanced, rivers, streams, mountains, forests, everything is unbalanced.
We have committed all these crimes in the human scientific era, yet we have not stopped boasting and
We think that we will get good results from science only, whereas this human race has come to the place of march from the earth.
Has gone. This is something to pay attention to. Whenever a person wants to avoid this problem, he should be wise.
It will happen. There is no other place.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 9

Crimes cannot be prevented by ignorance, even if it is done by the national constitution and law, a crime is still a crime.
Is. At present, all the nations in which humans reside on the earth have their own constitution.
lives. There are three main issues in the constitution of all nations and there is one promise, a great promise, and that is power centricity.
Governance” The definition of power-centric governance is to prevent wrong from wrong and crime to be criminalized.
To stop from war, to stop war from war, these are the three actions. It does not appear anywhere from these three deeds that
We are freed from crime. These three things happen in themselves every day, every month, every year, every century and
Becomes stronger. The strength of war, abundance of crimes, series of mistakes, these are the things that fill history.
Have happened. The pages are colored. This is testimony. If we search for their solution then we find at its root these
It is only man who creates all the circumstances. The second important reason is “Religious Constitution”. total
In all the religious constitutions on earth, it is believed that man is basically sinful, ignorant and selfish.
Is. Whereas the reality is different from this. So to save the sinner, to make the ignorant wise,
All religions have their own methods, character, duties and responsibilities to convert selfish people into altruists.
And rituals etc. have also been made. This is also a very obvious incident. What was their result?
Till now mankind has not recognized that an ignorant person has become wise. He also became selfish and altruistic.
No proof found. There was no proof that the sinner was freed from his sins.

I told you something before. Sadhana is till samadhi. In the period of spiritual practice, ideological in human
Being satisfied in form does not last, the mind remains agitated, because the human being is suffering from problems.
After this, he runs towards Samadhi. A man's height becomes visible only by striving for samadhi.
Is. During meditation, human beings come across all kinds of nonsense and after samadhi, they are quenched.
Is. The alternative method is to study, master, prove method.

After Samadhi, man has no desire to do anything, no desire to get anything, no desire to keep anything.
It has also been observed that there is no desire. So how did we feel like preparing all this?
I have already told you that I did not commit samadhi for salvation or for heaven.
To know the answers to the questions he was inclined to samadhi. If I did not get the answers to the questions in Samadhi then I
Started investigating whether Samadhi had taken place or not. All these things were understood during this investigation. human
Because of his virtue, because of man's future, because of man's best wishes and all welfare, this thing came out. These
It is not from books. This is the truth. The elders had only guided us that from Samadhi


<newpage>

V0 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

You will get the same answer. To prove whether I attained Samadhi or not, we exercised restraint and
Because of that these things came out. Human intelligence is wave-like. First in the Jungle Age, then in the Stone Age
And the way humans lived in the Metal Age is all written in history. As soon as Rajyag came, it was enough
People got relief. The king will protect life and property even though that has not happened yet. of life and property
There is no protection, peace is far away.

Every family, every community is worried about the safety of life and property and peace. similarly
Whatever relief the people got from the idealistic ladder, and after some time, that too was sufficient.
Not done. When it was insufficient again, it was natural to think again. scientism as an idea
Came. People accepted it because of its logical quality. In the first hermeneutics of logic
There was no scope. People who do not believe in the do's and don'ts of idealism are declared sinners.
Keep on harassing as much as you want. All this is written in history. For rational and logic
Because of the invitation, man accepted scientism.

Secondly, the dream of heaven, the happiness that people wished for, could be achieved through the facilities provided by science.
Put. The man tasted that too very well. Even in this the achievements of science are not enough for humans
Hui. Manav started getting into trouble again. In this way man keeps swinging between devotion, detachment and accumulation.
Amidst the facility. When a man gets fed up with the convenience of accumulation, he runs towards devotion and detachment and
When his feet become cold due to lack of devotion, he runs towards the collection facility. and both sound good
It seems, but there is a huge distance between feeling good and being good. Every person can think. feel good
Just doesn't make it better. Like cold water, it feels good to drink but it is better than this
there are no rules. Drinking cold water can make someone sick or cause cough. so cool
Both liking water or not liking cold water cannot be universal. it's for the body
There are favorable and unfavorable sides.

Due to scientism we are moving towards instability and uncertainty and scientists have
An attempt has been made to explain it as a device. They have not been successful yet, all this
Have heard. The scientist who interprets man as a machine is himself dissatisfied with this interpretation.
lives. Nowadays, understanding the mechanical functioning of humans has become a big issue. on this basis
It is thought that there will be speed in human behaviour, speed in work and speed in thoughts. While man is like this


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 8

I don't come. Science has considered only mechanics to be accurate, man can understand it and can tolerate it.
Is. Idealists advocated denial of sensitivity; man cannot understand sensitivity.
Can't bear it, can't bear it. The distance between the two promises remains intact. In this way, humans are facing one problem after another.
Got tighter. The body ends the journey along with the problem. Overall, this way we
The situation has arisen. What I am proposing now to the human race is the virtue of the human race itself.
I approve. I appreciate the hard work I have done with such great results (as much as we can get).
Gaye) is not eligible. It looked as if a guava tree would bear one ton of fruit and the tree would break.
May go. Similarly, a similar incident has happened with us. This is more than our hard work.
The main thing is who repeats this hard work. What brings more fruit to a human being than hard work?
We have observed it accurately. Life repeats. life capable of bearing such fruit
yes, how? We have seen life as an inexhaustible force, an inexhaustible power. Make you study also.
If you are curious, you can also understand and explain. We believe that you will understand
Is required. That's why you will understand. It is understood that life, which comes through the body
Whatever one decides is bound to exceed the body's needs. This is an easy process. I
Have seen life; Man has been seen as a combined form of life and body. human life till now
And were unable to explain existence through study. Wherever science went to understand existence,
The place continued to show instability, uncertainty and to struggle for profit, enjoyment, orgasm.
Kept giving ideas for. We humans continued to accept it. When we accept and go through it
That did not become the basis of satisfaction for us. The testimony of this is that the satisfaction point of convenience collection
The basis could not be established. In this way we continued to live despite being contradictory. The proposal before you now
What is presented has to be understood. Just as I check within myself, you too have to check and check.
You are satisfied only when you live, then you have to sacrifice yourself to make others understand.
Is. When we are able to explain to others, we get proof of our understanding. This is a criterion of understanding.
Of being. What I experienced is that in understanding we have seen coexistence. coexistence
In this, man can experience prosperity by producing more than his family needs.
In every fundamental issue of behavior, human intelligence is polarized as to the solution. these three things
We have seen which in order to study it, in order to prove it, we spread it far and wide.
While the length and width of the body remains fixed. The proposals that are being presented for human


<newpage>

42 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

That in itself contains things that extend far beyond the length, breadth, and height of a person. Similarly
Every human being has that ability, every human being has that desire, every human being has the enthusiasm in the sense of understanding.
It can be said that this is the meaning and purpose of this proposal.

Science is a step in itself, the step before that is idealism, the step before that is village clan.
There is the world, the first step from it is the man wandering in the forests, the Stone Age. step by step in this manner
We reached here. We should accept this favor and be grateful for it. this background
Told you the general undertaking of. In short, the high quality that tradition presented to us
We were not satisfied with that. As a result we considered ourselves a responsible person. find answers to my questions
Accepted that it is my responsibility. As a result, we tried and we did not try for anything else.
Did it. In this ideological effort we finally found that all human beings can be happy, religion can be successful.
Earth may be heaven, humans may be gods, that's why we had the desire and enthusiasm to
We are making efforts to present this matter before the human race.

Immediately after I fully understood existence, life and humane conduct, I
A situation arose which I am going to present before you now. After wisdom in itself
Build trust. There is no effort or hard work required for this. I have taken faith in every aspect
I also started checking. In the same way, respecting the superior also became the norm. to evaluate excellence
As a result, respect has to be done. Respect what we don't appreciate
Will not get it. The third issue was that we should fulfill our personality as per our understanding.
We became bearable through a convenient method. I don't feel any problem anywhere
It did not happen that I would not be able to live an easy life and an easy way of existence as per my talent. its name
Gave balance between talent and personality. In this we got right into it. Fourth situation came into practice
Became social. I started feeling satisfied within myself after being social. The benefit of this was
That we have no complaints left against the world. Now let's check how meaningful I am
I keep trying with all my might. Whatever relationships I live in, I live meaningfully with my responsibilities and duties.
The fifth situation is prosperity. Although I was born in a hard-working family, working hard, serving
Knew. But we did not understand the meaning of prosperity. Now understand the meaning of prosperity
Went. We produce more than what our family needs so we achieve prosperity.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 43

Let's experience. In this way many good things came into our hands and we named it autonomy.
I became autonomous in myself so you can too. When we became autonomous, this world left us
We can offer, explain, speak, and as a result it becomes a sacred document.
Started giving. The first document was – “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence”. four parts of intermediate philosophy
Polarized in.

The name of the first part is – “Philosophy of Human Behavior”. The name of the second part is – “Karma Darshan”. third part
The name of this is – “Practice Darshan”. The name of the fourth part is - 'Anubhav Darshan! ,

In this manner the complete philosophy was written in four parts. Their basic element is intermediary philosophy. even, odd in existence
And there are intermediate powers i.e. movements. It has its own consequences. of which the mediating force
And becoming glorious in power is the wonderful goal of human tradition. I was also amazed by this. As yet
All the scientists, knowledgeable and ignorant people who have smelled it are astounded. of scientists
According to this, instead of considering even and odd powers, there is a mediator power, there is no purpose for the mediator force.
Understanding in form has not been made yet. I think this is a huge shortcoming and shortcoming.
Therefore, if there is a need for reconsideration, then arbitrator force, arbitrator power, arbitrator power, arbitrator
Life has done the work of making these four things understood and explained to the four facts, its name is - “Mediator
Darshan”.

To clarify the concept of coexistence, it was prepared in three formats and under three headings. First -
“Solutionary Materialism”. Its polar point is:- The entire physicality and chemistry is its own.
It is published in the form of arrangement including 'Tva'. They do participate in the overall system. conscious nature
are also complemented with. Inanimate nature also participates with inanimate nature. to clarify this
have tried. Whatever ideas humans currently have are conflictual i.e. dialectical materialism. Whereas
Coexistence is a natural state, there is no quarrel, no rebellion, no snatching, no snatching, there is no struggle for each other.
There is a complement to it, there is a celebration, there is a happiness, there is continuous development, tried to explain this
Is. Vandgamaya is Vandamaya. But according to me, man will understand only from man. try in vandramay
It can only happen. The basic issue in this is scientific discretion; Presenting arguments using rational scientific method
Have done. Prudence means recognition of purpose. If the purpose is understood, it should be identified.
If it goes, we will analyze it. If we don't understand the purpose then should we keep analyzing?


<newpage>

V4 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

As it gets made, you also understand it. Where science has taken man today, or
You can evaluate yourself whether he has been implicated. So according to solution materialism there exists
Whatever substances are there in physical and chemical form, they inspire humans to live in the system and
The overall units are complementary to each other, conducive to prosperity and a platform for further development.
Interrelated to each other. The solution has been explained in this manner.

The second system of co-existence is named: – “Behavioral democracy”. Whatever human beings exist, they exist.
There is room for satisfaction only in practice. Human beings behave with human beings. human behavior
Humanity becomes clear in the form of complete conduct and an attempt has been made to clarify this.

After that a third essay has been written “Experiential Spiritualism”. Till now spirituality which the world
Kept believing but was unable to make him understand. We can easily understand spirituality in just a few moments.
Are. You can call the visible void between us as expansion and void. These
The void that is between you and us is the same between this earth and another earth. one solar array the other
There is a similar void between the solar arrays. It is the same between one galaxy and another galaxy. So
This expansion is the same everywhere. It is known that this thing is widespread. All in one comprehensive thing-
An object(s) are submerged, wet, surrounded. This is what a man experiences first. After that
Man experiences his own existence. If this is not widespread among you then your experience
It can't happen to me. Therefore, first of all, whatever is experienced happens only in the wider world. clear this
Have tried to do. An attempt has also been made to shed light on its need. to existence
Without understanding, how will the human race, which is a part of existence, understand itself? so
It is very important to understand existence. The whole of each thing is within the wider thing, it is self-existence
Is the testimony of. So if we forget the natural coexistence of existence, we will leave nothing except crisis, sorrow and
Nothing happens.

All the treason, rebellion, exploitation, wars that we have done till now are against coexistence. all of this
After doing this we desired and expected to get the right thing. Our expectations were not fulfilled and
As it happened, similar incidents kept happening. Sometimes we laughed and sometimes we cried. like a family,
The community kills someone else and is very happy that their enemy has been killed. Government also,
The country also thinks like this. What should be done now? The religious throne is also made in the same way. In whose shelter now?


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 45

Go human. In this way, from religious throne, royal throne, educational throne, business throne, everywhere there is only confusion, isn't it?
These were problems. all these problemsThere is no direction and no purpose. Where should we go now? What to do? 
It was there in me too before awakening. After awakening we are able to accept this fact very well.
We agreed that this entire thing should be brought to humans. After that get it in the form of scripture
Gaye means in the form of art of living. Whatever economics is now is profit-driven. man than that
Can't be happy. The only way for all human beings to be happy is through circular economics.
It is natural and in accordance with the system.

The second scripture is written - “Behavioristic Sociology”. Man finds satisfaction only by behaving justly.
He deals only with human beings, if the behavior is fair then there is satisfaction. the core of this arrangement
The point is - Humane conduct. As a result, we adopt humane conduct as a national code of conduct.
Can accept. The citizens of all countries can accept it as a constitution. thereby unbroken
Society will be a universal system.

This will eliminate the terror of war between one community and another in the world.
It is possible As long as war efforts continue, humans will not be able to live without harassing the earth.
To harass further, more intelligence will have to be used. This also evaluates scientific intelligence
It happens. A lot of science and scientists are engaged in war conservation and get money for it.
We consider ourselves blessed. The point is to destroy the earth, that's all. We have to get rid of this
For this we have to be wise and there is no other way.

The third scripture is written - “Human Consciousness Psychology”. In this it is wanted to tell that the meaning of consciousness is
The basis of life is developed consciousness. Body, consciousness i.e. consciousness in the sense of completeness is human.
It is a medium of expression in tradition. Tried to explain this. You guys will check it.
If you understand then our writing becomes meaningful. In this way philosophy, thought and scriptures
Gave things. The basic meaning of the scriptures is that humans have to live within the system. which one to live
Is there a way? What is the method? What is the policy? What is the system? These things have been made clear in the scriptures. Its
Later, plans were made to implement it. The plans came in three forms.

The first scheme is – Jeevan Vidya Yojana. Since ancient times, man has remained ignorant of himself. ideal era
I also tried to explain the things called soul and God in the form of a sermon, but I did not understand.


<newpage>

V6 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Couldn't find it. It is this ignorance about oneself that troubles man the most. If you understand this
If you go, you will understand what lies ahead. Jeevan Vidya to overcome this difficulty
There is a plan. The focus of this scheme is life. Which is equally important for all human beings, children and old,
The right exists. Life itself is the basis of equality of human beings. body of any two human beings
Are not similar. Life is the same, the powers and forces of life are the same, the goal of life is the same.
Life wants to be awakened, awakening is its goal (life). everyone wants to find the solution
Yes, every person wants justice. You all can check this. any part of you like this
There is no one who waits for justice, wants justice. Any part of the body wants solution.
Similarly, there is no part of the body that wants prosperity, while human justice, solution, prosperity
Just wants to. Hence it comes to the conclusion that justice, solution, prosperity, truth are all the desires of life.
Because it is human in the form of life and body. Therefore, the nature of life should be understood.
To understand the actions, to be satisfied in life, to understand justice, religion and truth, this is a small task.
It came out of this. On this basis, Jeevan Vidya Yojana has been presented. turn it into an action plan
Did. Science stalwarts, knowledgeable people and ignorant people who do not know science have all heard it, some people understand it.
Have gone and tried to convince others and have been successful in making them understand. Then we believed that
What we have understood is meaningful and proven, everyone can understand it and can explain it by understanding.
Are.

The second plan is humanization of education. It is necessary for everyone to be wise. therefore wisdom
All things should be included in education. Curriculum was made for it, experiment in school
to be done. That school is in Govindpur of Bijnor district. Had a very good experience there. First
All the educationists kept saying that the environment has an impact on the students. Experience in Govindpur
It was said that students have an impact on the environment. I wish to see it in a bigger form
Efforts for that are ongoing. The third plan is – family based self-rule system. power centered governance
Solution centric system in place. This is how philosophies, scriptures, and plans are filtered.

Hail, prosperity, prosperity.

०७०७ ० ० ०/०चचर


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 47

life science

I have understood life, my attempt to explain it to you starts from here. The name of this process is “life
“Vidya”. First we want to make it clear to you that equality is always present in life. what is life
Every person wants to know, believe this and wants to prove its results.
This is its basic purpose. 'Life' is neither physical nor non-physical. “Life” is atomic, constituted atom
Consciousness is the unit. What is constitutiveness? There is neither displacement nor transposition in this atom.
Is. Whereas in physico-chemical form, whatever atoms are there, there is displacement and displacement in the parts contained in them.
What is found is what we call “result”. There is a change in the number of particles contained in the atom.
That is the change and no change happens in the world. Man can bring about any change whenever
So it will only be able to cause changes in the fractions of the resulting atoms. There are two species of these atoms
- One hungry atom, the other indigestion atom. The hunger of a few fractions to be satisfied in the atom
(Need) remains, along with every result, completeness is clear as it is, they are hungry.
Called atomic. Such atoms in which some parts want to come out are called indigestible atoms.
In this way the atoms remain active in the sense of being satisfied in both ways.

That satisfied atom is the formed atom. This constituted atom is the conscious unit. consciousness unit name
This is because human tradition itself has the power to prove life through cognitive sensitivity.
Is in. In the absence of life, even if we create a body, we will not be able to prove sensitivity.
Awareness is a far cry. In this way, to prove human sensitivity and cognitive
Only in order is one able to live in the system and participate in the overall system. just this small task
Is. Sensitivity is proved by all living creatures. to human cognition
Without proving it one is not satisfied, one is not happy, no matter how much one beats one's head.

Human beings want to be happy. In order to be happy, we sometimes think that we should be happy by accumulating comforts.
Will go, sometimes will become happy through chanting, penance, devotion and detachment. There is someone for every man to be happy
Efforts are made, but through these efforts, someone got satisfaction and continuous happiness, there is evidence of this.
No. Now in order to become happy as I became happy on the basis of understanding; I think every person


<newpage>

V8 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

One can be happy by being wise. In truth every human being is one, in error many. For this every human being
There was a need to identify the object of equality, such a thing which could become the bearer of the right.
What I understood is that it is a 'life' lived contentedly.

“Life” when lived wisely presents solutions everywhere. with solution
Every person is happy. Is unhappy with the problem. The thing to be understood is 'life', the human body
Driving. Whatever we taught to the bull, the cow and the animals, all that sensitivity
It is in the sense of. Now how should men teach each other? Only by fighting can someone make someone understand something.
Have not found. The longer a person remains controlled by the fear of his livelihood, the more he wears the armor of fear.
Takes it off and puts it away. An example of this is found in history in the form of the end of the slave-slave system.
There is definitely fear and temptation in sensitivity. All nations, all religions are based on fear and temptation.
Claims to provide the entire technology system and business organization system. While there is no fear system and
There is no system of temptation because humans neither accept fear nor temptation. so what should happen human
Near; Value and evaluation. A method of identifying values is needed. having techniques to evaluate
Needed If we have both these things, the tradition of continuous solution will continue. value and valuation also
It is a process of understanding. This is not a physical, mechanical process of the body. Right now science says
Everything is mechanical, nothing is emotional. So keep fighting fear and temptation in mechanicalness. mechanical
Man has reached the point of thinking systematically whether this earth will last or not? question mark on this
Went.

The problem will not be solved by the problem itself, no matter how many problems you collect. Problem's
The solution will be found only through solution. We have no relief without solution. consciousness to find solutions
Development is a method of equating the system with human conscious value and evaluation method.
We have to develop. In this way, the system is organized by keeping life relationships, life satisfaction and life goals at the center.
If we do the equations we will be successful. If we forget life, whatever we are in the sense of the body,
Giving order will only create chaos. Feeling good about the body does not always mean good. Any
Also the body function will not remain continuous. The body's action has to be changed again and again. “Life” continues
lives. Therefore, there is a need for wisdom to take decisions based on life. life in all human
It is the same, the strength of life is the same, the strength and power in life is inexhaustible. It never ends.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 49

Decreases. Why doesn't this happen? There is no change in the result in the life atom. so its strength
And power is inexhaustible. Force is proved in position and power in motion. What is the testimony of this man?
Accepts itself to be continuous. To be is the present. Everything is studied in the present only.
In the same sequence, at present "life" is the same in everyone, life's innate forces and powers are the same. Fourth thing
The goal of life is that all people want to be happy. Everyone's goal is to be happy. these four things
Need to keep in mind.

Life is a constitutive atom, a conscious unit. Now the question also comes who makes it. As yet
There is someone who can make it and someone who can destroy it. It is troublesome. Human beings also think on the same basis. We also
We can create and destroy, this is the basic basis of science. So in the trouble of making or breaking
There has been a lot of frustration due to this. Some countries say we can make atom bombs, some can't
Therefore this similarity has no meaning. Because equality exists naturally and
Making bombs is anti-coexistence. Coexistence is natural. we do anything out of discomfort
There is always opposition to it somewhere. This is how business became profitable and because of this more
The lesser vampire lagged behind. One man thinks, less is more. A man thinks, there is more and
The fight continues. In this way it is not possible for humans to live a healthy, happy life. so
To live a healthy life, every human has to live with the development of consciousness, values and evaluation method. His
The first step is understanding, the second step is honesty, the third step is responsibility, the fourth step is participation.
In these four stages, man has to prove his intelligence. There are three things in the meaning of wisdom
Life knowledge, coexistence philosophy knowledge and humane conduct knowledge. about the nature of life
Told. Life is eternal, it aspires to happiness and happiness can be proved only in human tradition. Its
The first issue to strive for is to understand life, which is called “Jeevan-Vidya”. holder of knowledge-
The carrier is life. The nature of education has three parts – knowledge, scholarship and scholar. Vidya :- complete
Coexistence is the natural source of knowledge. There is wisdom in coexistence. Life is also inseparable in coexistence
Is. Wisdom: Wisdom is the accepted coexistence in life. Scholar:- He is human.
Every human being is a composite of life and body.

So what is the object to be understood? Existence in the form of complete coexistence. This is the knowledge to know, believe and live
Is an object. The bearer and carrier of knowledge is life and the person who proves it is human. Human body


<newpage>

20 Life Sciences: An Introduction

And it is a combined form of life. Through this method, the glory of man and the glory of life, of coexistence
The glory is self-evident. Existence is naturally coexistence. Coexistence is easy, development is easy.
Development is easy, life is easy. Life is easy awakening. For this, coexistence is the visible and life itself is the spectator.
Chemical physical composition and structures are interrelated to each other. All these events are ever present.
You will not find any moment when there are no chemical-physical formations. Will not get any day. any century
Will not get it. Life is the witness of all these creations and destructions. Life is all about seeing and understanding
The body does not understand anything.

The part of the body which does not have the vitality of life is called void. something hot or cold in that place
Even if I try, I don't understand. Secondly, anything after anesthesia while performing operations in hospitals
They are beaten up and no one is left with anything. On these grounds it is understood where life is alive
It is only when it is maintained that the feelings are understood. Where life is curious for its satisfaction
Only for this reason does he understand truth, accuracy and reality. As a result, life becomes the basis of happiness.
Is. For this reason we need to understand life. This need is there for the rich, the poor, the poor,
Everyone is weak, big and small.

The second sutra found in this is that there is no basis for class struggle from the knowledge of life. basis of all good in this
There is only coexistence. It is the source of everyone's continuous happiness. There is evidence of being resolved. all these things
Originate from oneself. I think this is what humans want, they want to live like this. of all of us
Can also live happily. The principle emerges that no one is alone. relation to this earth
If any human being tries to be happy then it is not possible. someone who is happy after leaving the relationship with water
not can. If we cannot be happy by giving up the relationship with any things, then we can give up the relationship in life.
How will you live? How mechanical will it become? And how will one get freedom from the emotional world? think about it yourself
how is it possible. We go to the market and ask the prices of vegetables, grains, gold, iron etc. of that feeling
Who is the seer? Is only human. When everyone has feelings, humans will also have feelings. know human feelings
The only requirement was to apply, everyone's sentiment was captured except that. which create profit opportunities
If you grasp all the emotions and understand the value of a human being then you will be free from profit and loss.
By understanding human values, by understanding life values, by understanding established values, by understanding decent values, we
The need for profit and loss becomes zero. Then one has to live on utility value so that the earth's


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction and

What a huge burden on the chest can be lightened. Man does not save himself in the matter of profit and loss.
is, not to save the stranger. Everyone slaughtered, shattered for the sake of profit and loss. Get rid of this hassle then
It is through this method that it becomes easier for humans to understand values. This is not going to happen before that.
We have beaten our heads a lot but there has been no improvement. The testimony to this is communism and capitalism.
Communism also ultimately fought for national benefit, it was not free from profit and capitalism always
Is a declared beneficiary. Therefore, to be free from profit and loss, humans need to understand their values.
Needed. There is a need to uphold human values. How will this wisdom of life be understood?
By coming to understand existence as coexistence and having faith in humane conduct,
Human values are realized. This is called wisdom.

Only when we start implementing human values, we become expert (able) to do right, proficient.
Are there. As long as we are stuck with some madness and we find some way to correct it
No. To be wise is to understand life and human behavior in coexistence.
Is. This is the wisdom of life. There are two parts of knowledge – life knowledge and coexistence philosophy knowledge. of both of these
The bearer and bearer is life itself. Jeevan Gyan means the process of understanding life. Life
When one understands existence, this process is called existence philosophy. all life is equal all human beings
Life is the same in. How did the issue of equality come up? Life, in the method of understanding life, certified
In the method of doing, in the method of understanding existence, in the method of proving coexistence, it came
That all life is equal.

There is no system of understanding anywhere in the body - hands, legs, ears, nose, eyes, brain, heart. it
There is order in life itself. Life itself is the thing to understand life and coexistence and no one else
Will not understand. In this manner we come to this conclusion to express human intelligibility (proved
To do) it is necessary to be in the combined form of body and life. Is it only body or only life
Will not happen if you stay. The central point of certification became living in the system and participation in the overall system.
to do. This is the significance of wisdom. We all want to live in a system, this process makes life easy.
It is only there. This is not a burdensome thing.

In order to understand coexistence, existence itself is coexistence because existence is immersed in existence.
Wet, surrounded) Nature is the entire existence. Nature in itself is a countable thing. the one counting


<newpage>

22 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Is human. These countable things in nature are inanimate nature and animate nature. There is a small formula -
Man is happy due to wisdom, man living in unintelligent consciousness i.e. living being is unhappy. the whole world till now
Kept struggling. First keep fighting with the living beings, do penance, do yoga, become a monk, then you will be happy. People
Even after using this, no evidence was found, no tradition was established. For the second time they struggled to find a lot of things.
Collect it and you will be happy with the convenience. Not happy with that either. No one was happy with either thing.
Then it is a matter of thinking and it came out in the same order that solution is through wisdom and happiness is through solution.
Wisdom leads to correct behavior. In truth all are one, in error many. by our fault
You agree/agree, it does not happen that we agree/agree due to your mistake. the mistake that
If so, it is a mistake for you as well as for us. We have understood that we are truly one.

Our well-being is enhanced only by understanding the self, from and for. Only through wisdom we become happy and prosperous,
Live wisely in the present as per the law. coexistence in tradition only with wisdom
Certifies. There are four stages of happiness: - Solution, prosperity, fearlessness, living in coexistence. these four things
If it is certified then we become happy. As long as these four things do not come, we are wise.
In tradition, we keep striving for, from, for. In the course of this effort, we do all the chanting, penance, worship, yoga-
Have performed the yagya. Also collected a lot of things. But not everyone was happy. for everyone to be happy
To be wise. Wisdom can be spread to everyone. The first step to wisdom
Understanding existence. Existence is in four states. The first state of matter which includes soil, stone, gem, metal
etc., all these are proved in their respective conduct. The second life state in which all the trees, plants,
There are plants and medicines, all these are also self-evident in their behaviour. the third life stage in which humans
Apart from this, all the living beings and birds come, all of them are certified as a system along with their nature.
Fourth is the state of knowledge in which humans are the only ones whose arrangement is still awaited. Now think most of all
The developed stage is at the back. What does this mean? What will happen if there is no pain?

So our character also needs to be developed. Everything has its own behavior
Certifies the arrangement. Human beings will also prove according to their conduct. This formula is found
Is. We, you, everyone have to check this formula. If you go to investigate then who will understand anything about you?
Yes, understand that thing first. To understand what it means to survive. And
Understand what you will get by understanding it. This is human reach. Humans are counted in the state of knowledge. state of knowledge


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 23

What is the basis of being counted? In the same manner, whatever the human organism understands in the course of consciousness,
Performs work. Even if it is no longer known, the desire to believe is there in every person and in the consciousness of the living being.
We know this while living, it is said that it is not known with claims, it is accepted but while speaking
I know that time says, it is subjective because living being in consciousness is verified in the sense of all good.
It is not necessary to do it. This is what is characteristic of a confused person. 99% of the confused people consider the human body as life.
As a result of which many problems have been created and have also been plagued by problems, now the problems
There is a desire to get freedom from this, this program is being organized under that desire.

Out of the four states, only man cannot be happy without understanding and being satisfied. state of matter
The result is controlled by the consequential method. Vital state is controlled by vegetative method. survival, hereditary
Is controlled by law. The proof of being in control is to stay in order. To remain in certain conduct. human
Every unit of nature except one is in its fixed behavior. There is a need for certain conduct in humans too
Is. Human beings have to be controlled by methods related to culture. What is Sanskar? There is wisdom in the form of developed consciousness.
The proof of wisdom is humane conduct. When a human being is wise he lives in the system
And then its conduct becomes completely humane. Inhuman behavior when one cannot live within the system
Is called. Now the definition of human conduct and inhuman conduct is made. After this we
Find out whether it is needed or not. man towards what is needed
It is a natural tendency. In this way the path has been made for human awakening. life is not born,
Neither dies nor the body is created and remade. Life, life in a natural way to the human body
Wants to drive. What is Jeevan Sahaj Vidhi? Understanding and program to be happy. all animals just want to live
Hopefully through hereditary method. While human wants to live happily but when human
If someone goes to live according to hereditary method then he gets worried, that's all.

We need to understand this well and prove it well.
Wisdom is the thing to prove. Only when I can understand you and explain it to others, you
Are certified. In this way wisdom flows in the form of tradition. Ignorance cannot flow into tradition.
There is no diversity in the objects of wisdom. There is diversity in presentation. Therefore from generation to generation and
It will be strong, it will be intense. The method of correction becomes more intense. significance of doing right and


<newpage>

24 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Becomes accessible. It is necessary for all human beings. That's why intelligent human beings are the only ones with tradition.
By offering it properly to the next generation, one can satisfy oneself and the next generation can be satisfied.

Human is a cultural unit. Samskaras combined with wisdom, honesty, responsibility, participation
Only the present exists. Since mistakes are not acceptable to anyone, mistakes do not become culture.
No one accepts mistakes but remains stuck. A man may have committed a thousand mistakes
But he does not accept those mistakes. Since mistakes are not acceptable to anyone, no one can make them any further.
It is not passed on to generations, hence no tradition of foolishness (mistakes) is created. So all these testimonies
The only conclusion that comes from this is that wisdom is the natural source of tradition. pole point for wisdom
Is the similarity of human consciousness. Life is the pole of equality. Constitutive and inexhaustible force in life, Akshay
The strength is these similarities. No matter how much I hope, think, desire, I don't have the strength to hope, think, desire.
Its strength remains. In this way, to have inexhaustible force and power in life, from effectiveness
It is impossible to be free without being free; this logical method makes it possible to accept the completeness of life.

When wisdom has been accepted in me, how can it be tested? This should be implemented in behavior, work, system
Is checked. I checked many times in behavior and action, the solution to live within ourselves as a system-
As obvious as prosperity. The overall system is still not formed in human tradition. integral social system
After living as a person, the thing that coexists in our experience and understands it as it is.
There is proof of the matter in traditional form, proof is again available through experience. our experience elevated
Keeps happening. In this way, the idea of living empirically came to the fore. This is how the human being concluded
Understanding lives in the system by experiential methods. Life stage By the hereditary method, life stage
They live in the system through the seminal method and the material state through the consequential method.

Coming to the point that wisdom is certain, it is to live with developed consciousness. bearer of wisdom
The carrier is certain, hence the proof of understanding is certain. There is only sensible life. understands
Life is the proof of wisdom lies in human tradition because it is in the human body itself that there is a rich and complete meditation.
Creation is found and no evidence of intelligence will be found in any tradition (organism). in coexistence
Complementation, sublimation, evolution, development and awakening all these things are included. all these points
The method of understanding is inherent in humans only, the capability is also inherent in humans only.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 25

The basic issue of understanding existence is that existence is nature imbued with existence. These are each other's
It is found to be entangled with each other and indivisible forever, continuously existing and present. Nature
There is no method to separate the object from the broader object, there is no purpose to separate it, be separate
Can't In this way, we will not be able to do anything even by imagining what does not exist. Existence
It is a matter of understanding what is there in me. It is a matter of certification. Existence itself is expressed in four states
Is.

If we are not able to prove our understanding then we will neither be able to live in the family system nor in the social system.
Will get. We are troubled everywhere. Seven hundred crore human beings are on this earth but
We are not yet ready to live under the system. There is no such thing as a person can understand by increase or decrease in numbers.
Is. What is the purpose of human tradition: solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence, simple proof. coexistence
Through this method we are able to live in a complementary manner. Abhay believes in the present method. Through prosperity method we
Are able to produce more than the family's needs. We can live justly only with solutions.

Whatever efforts have been made so far in human tradition, we can both use the idealistic method and the materialistic method.
Couldn't find wisdom from. Its basic reason is that existence is not understood as coexistence.
There was a mistake in understanding life and awakening of life in coexistence, as a result of which life and wisdom were lost.
The tradition did not happen. When there is no tradition then how will we come to live in the system. in the absence of understanding
Human beings, in a fair and balanced manner with humans and with nature (animals, plants, matter) in a regular and balanced manner.
It is not possible to live with. Due to this, Anupam kept violating nature.

Man did not get justice. When the judges of big courts were asked, they said that we will decide
Do not judge. In this situation, when the court does not know justice then calling it a court
How true will it be and in the same courts it is said to tell the truth. How far is the truth in the court now?
Should the truth be discovered? Similarly, what is the work in office? to find fault, to find fault
To find and prevent them from mistakes and crime. Employees in the entire government system are employed for this purpose.
Are planned.

The basic thing for human beings to be awakened is 'intelligence'. If every human being can attain understanding, then human
Will be able to live justly. Prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence come by themselves with righteous living.
There will be no solution without living righteously. This shows that the backbone of humanity is justice.


<newpage>

26 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Justice is first established in a sensible family, then in society and in universal order on the whole earth.
Is certified as. By living in justice, man remains satisfied, happy, satisfied,
Presently, faith becomes stronger and our behavior continues to become brighter and brighter. it
All things are easily achieved by living righteously. For which it is said with great virtue
will get. The meaning of virtue as we understand it is to be wise. to be human wise
In the tradition, he starts proving his abilities, capabilities and entitlements to himself. capacity i.e.
Carrying action. What does it carry? Either of awakening or of confusion. when man woke up
Then the illusion disappears automatically. Human is a cultural unit. wisdom or illusion conventionally
Only he comes. Due to the tradition being present in the human child since birth, those qualities are prevalent in him.
Are transmitted. After this comes effort and charity. Human based on effort and charity
By becoming wise one becomes free from illusion. Freedom from illusion means the activities of living life consciously.
Till now, whatever we have learned from tradition is to live relative to the body, profit mania is the testimony of this.
Teach for orgasm and pleasure. While humans are different from animals, they have different types of tendencies.
Going to do. The reason for life is multifaceted expression in human beings. Some animal or tree wants a human solution.
The stone does not want a solution. Human wants prosperity, no animal or bird wants prosperity. any
Animals like lion, cow, snake, pig, etc. also do not have the tendency to collect. Ants also collect for the purpose of collection
There is nothing like that. It is not that there is a tendency to collect. If you get an item, you keep collecting it.
Human beings have tendencies of deliberate accumulation and the reason for this is the lust for overindulgence. This
Instead of solution and arrangement being the goal, collection facility became our goal and for that dear,
Interest, profit was the attitude and as a result we kept on being unhappy, kept on struggling, kept on being tortured.

The only way to get rid of this problem is to understand life awakening and coexistence and to live humanely.
Understand the behavior. Man is the highest developed unit in existence both as a body and as a form of life.
In. Life uses the body to prove its existence and awakening. Use
At the time of doing so, it keeps the body alive and later on, it accepts the body as life.
As a result, the living being gets confused in consciousness and has to operate the body again to prove it.
Does. Leaving the body in this manner several times is a matter of concern. In this there is a name of sin and virtue.
Nothing happens. There is only wisdom or foolishness. Wisdom comes only from tradition. wisdom
It has to be found in tradition only. It is not possible that the world will be destroyed just because one person is intelligent.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Such imagination only made us fearful and helpless. Every human being has self-improvement in humane conduct,
Self-woman/self-man is able to live in the form of compassionate work behavior. By living like this, our body, mind and wealth
It is also necessary to make good use of it and to protect it and when both of these are combined then in that situation the relationship, value, evaluation,
Ambivalence also proves itself. In this way values, character, morality combined
Human behavior is explained. Good use of body, mind and wealth is security and morality.
Is. Values are realized only through the method of recognizing relationships. Like any man after his father
Relationships, mother's relationships and Guru's relationships are recognized in the sense of the system. price itself
They start flowing and as a result values are maintained. Where relationships are not recognized there is no value
There is no flow. Example: Someone is sitting in a train compartment. A stranger comes and touches their hands and legs.
It becomes tall on its own, I wish no one should sit here. After some time, some unknown man
When someone comes, they stand up on their own and make them sit. In this way the relationship is identified as one.
It's a big job. Study about relationships is based on purpose. like mother's relationship is nurturing
On the basis of objective, the father's relationship was studied on the basis of primary objective of protection.
goes. Once these relationships are recognized, humans do not make mistakes. without recognizing the relationship
Will definitely make mistakes.

If we look at the current political system, religious system and propaganda media, it appears that all are for criminals.
Is made. Both of them are engaged in saving the criminals in their own way. All these systems give wisdom to humans
show the path of honestyDid not get. Every human wants to be wise. Wants to be honest. 
Couldn't find it. Every man wants to be responsible. The purpose of responsibility could not be given in tradition. people have
I have wished for good luck for everyone, good luck for everyone's family, good luck for everyone, such things.
Everyone has repeated. But the path is not found just by saying, just by repeating. the book in which it was written
It is written in it that everyone should be well, the whole world is a lie and their real parents are God.
One should go to shelter, it will not bring any benefit. Manav was not found after going to real parents
Then whose welfare will be there? There is no purpose in all this. only if you are wise
Man's purpose is clear. There is a purpose inherent in all relationships. What is the purpose? Solution,
The purpose is to make prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence successful. This is the purpose of all relationships
It remains connected and by joining it becomes a tradition. There will be a tradition of wisdom and no one of foolishness.
The tradition will not remain intact. That's why no tradition has been formed yet in the sense of all good. current education


<newpage>

28 Life Sciences: An Introduction

When a person is ready after studying, he considers himself the most intelligent. Considers the world a fool. This way
Crores of graduates are made every year. How to make each such graduate wise? where so many from
A doctor should be appointed who can cure you.

No one accepts without understanding it himself. I myself am a witness to this. Vedamurthy in our family, next door
Vedamurthy, Vedamurthy in the whole village but our family members could not teach us Vedas because we did not want to study.
But, every human being on this earth wants to become intelligent. On this basis, every human being should be intelligent.
There is a complete possibility. Seeing this trend, this campaign was started. make every human wise
Have also started with this truth. Those who have understood from this beginning
It is a relief that all those qualities have developed in him which we recognize as humane.

The basic element of morality is to employ the means of body, mind and wealth in the sense of purpose. whom
Called good use. It is put to good use in two ways - 4. Employment of body, mind and money in service and production.
2. To make the purpose successful along with relationships, good use of body, mind and money in the form of dedication.

The one who made good use of it got protection. For which we made good use of the meaning of its protection
Happened. This is what we mean by good use and safety. For solutions, for prosperity, faith in the present
By employing means like body, mind and wealth for pre-arrangement and for co-existence, its security
Happened. As a result, our money was put to good use. Security without good use and good use without security
Will not happen. Good use of security is always good. Our body, mind and wealth in good habits
The need to plan remains, in the sense of our awakening.

If there can be any intelligent entity in coexistence, it is only human. of human life and body
Jointly certified. The human body has a lineage. life coexistence life naturally
It exists in the form of fully formed atoms and there is no human contribution in it. human tradition in the body
Has a contribution of. This is the system. Life and body need to be united, only life is its awakening.
It is only in the sense of proving intelligence and there is no system to prove intelligence in living bodies.
Therefore, human being is understood as a cultural unit. all three in existence except humans
The stages are mutually complementary. Humans have also become needy to be complemented. human as a complement
Living in this system can never be possible on the basis of individualism and materialism. past
Due to both the thoughts of materialism and neutralism, man became individualistic. person with materialistic method


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 29

is hedonistic. is consequently individualistic. A detachmentist is an individualist. Thus
These two ideas did not lead to the creation of a society but rather resulted in being anti-social. while man
Wants to live in society. Wants to live in coexistence. wants to live prosperously and peacefully
Wants to live. Fulfilling the purposes of all three ideas (coexistence, prosperity and solution) is essential for human
There is responsibility.

After wisdom comes responsibility. When we approach responsibility, we naturally
Families become human, become social. As a result we are certified as universal. This
There is a need for a glorious tradition. Every person wants order in the form of hope. as aspiration
I also want order. According to us, he wants the arrangement even in the form of a wish, but in his wish, he
The order of preference is below, there are many more things above it. That is why there is no strong desire for arrangement.
As a result the man remains unable to surrender. Man becomes helpless due to the method of living consciousness. What
Let's do? Only those who are ready to understand immediately should be made proficient. from them in educational institutions
Human education should be implemented and values should be inculcated in children. Home by inculcating values in children
Changes are bound to happen naturally in the family. There is a need for humanization of education in this way
Education being meaningful is the second plan of the system.

The units of material state, vital state and living state are complementary for humans. but humans are their complement
It is under consideration. There is a need to complete it. Only then is the proof of human survival in the system
Will be able to get it.

The innate values of awakened life are happiness, peace, contentment, joy. Human goal is achieved by simple value of life
Is. Human goal is solution, prosperity, fear and coexistence. Human goal is proved, value of life
Is certified. Solution - happiness. Wherever we remain content, we experience happiness.
Are. Where there is no solution we suffer. After that in the family we live the solution
In a state of being prosperously affirmed, one experiences peace. Satisfaction-joy in the sense of living in order
Let's experience. They feel pleasure in the sense of proving their intelligence. Thus,
If we all can become certified in this, then wisdom in tradition will be an easy proof. In this sequence we will find happiness,
Able to experience peace, satisfaction and joy.


<newpage>

30 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Life is full of inexhaustible force and inexhaustible power. After solving the problem using this method, the solution is published and certified.
Keep doing it continuously and life remains satisfied. “There is strength in life and power in movement.
The actions taking place in motion are proved to be interconnected with each other. of actions while in position
Experience happens. We come to know whether we are satisfied with whatever we taste or not.
Whatever comparison we made, we got the facts or not. We know the truth experientially
(contemplation) did, contemplated through perception method, experienced. This resulted in the fact that we continuously
Keep testing in the sense of purpose. We will have to test, we will do it, there is no other way.
Overall, satisfaction in these five stages becomes the path to continuous happiness. This is happiness, peace,
They give names like satisfaction and joy. By being certified in these five conditions, man's glory becomes self-rule.
Remains prestigious in form. The meaning of the state is to be prosperous by being filled with human humanity.
Living within the system is state, it is self-rule. Self-motivated living within the system is Swarajya. Thus
Since, humane behavior is its explanation. In oneself, in family, in society, in nature, in the system which
There is a relationship that will make it meaningful, this is the awakening of human beings, this is the natural glory. creating meaningful relationships and values
It is only in the course of this that we are able to believe in the present. If you don't recognize relationships, you don't live in the present.
So we go to the past, the past is not the present. (It is not possible to live with the past) Let's think about the future,
The future is also not the present. This way a man doesn't find a place anywhere. keeps wandering as a result
Is. No one wants to wander. There is no system of direction and target guidance in tradition. every human consciousness
Development values can become a proven tradition only by becoming wise through education. into the behavior of every human being
And humanity can be evaluated. Man has to make his wisdom successful, this is his
This is the glory, this is the opulence of man. With this opulence, man can make his tradition continuously happy.
Is. Can behave in a balanced manner with all the animal world, living world, plant world and material world.
By being grateful for the complementarity that comes from it, one can use it and make good use of it.
Can become useful.

With humans there is relationship, value, evaluation, ambivalence. Satisfaction is our boon, dissatisfaction is not our boon
Is. Every person has the possibility of being satisfied, finding solutions, prosperity, living in the present with faith and order.
Coexistence has to be proved. The nature of truth arrived at in this way is existence itself which is the ultimate truth, continuous
The living thing is existence itself and existence is a form of coexistence, coexistence itself is continuously effective.
Is. As a result, development and awakening appear and development takes place. grow, come alive


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 34

Let's go. It is continuously working as a physical-chemical object in the process of development. life how many
The determination that it has to happen, co-existence comes naturally and does not come by confused human order. Existence
He himself has revealed all the four stages in his own way. There is no human contribution in this.
Man has not been able to prove himself as complementary to other nature, but on the contrary
Has been exploiting. How humans wished to be happy through exploitation is a matter to think about. Exploitation
Every state, every community, every religion, most of the families think about being happy. As far as the state
And the community believes that one can be happy only through exploitation. Till date this is the last thing and science
It also supports that humans can maintain their existence only through struggle and exploitation.
Existence here means one's caste and community. Struggle means whose stick is his buffalo.
Struggle is considered development. The country which can fight more wars, uses more business intelligence.
The country that can exploit more is called a developed country. While the developed country is the same
Who has awakened. Is in order, is satisfied, is prosperous, believes in himself, wants to co-exist
Understands.

Life, the way of understanding life and the way of understanding life existence are different. as far as physical
These are chemical substances and we identify them experimentally on the basis of their usefulness. utility we
Recognized as normal aspiration and ambition. Common aspirations are food, shelter, adornment
(means) The great ambition is to travel far, listen to distance, see television. Most of these parts have been identified
Have also produced. Efforts have also been made to make it accessible to all through business methods. business method
I always wait for profit.

On the basis of analysis of life, we are able to identify which things we need.
Needed. Then by identifying those needs we produce and experience prosperity.
We do. As soon as we experience prosperity we begin to live in law so
Our students first need to be made autonomous and then able to be certified in the family.
There is a need to live within the trend and then the overall system. Being certified in these three situations is human.
It's a good fortune. Man's spontaneous need is the only basis for becoming so fortunate.
Is. If such a need arises, then this proposal should be proved carefully and studied.
It is easy to do.


<newpage>

32 Life Sciences: An Introduction

So we tried to understand, what is wisdom? Who is there to understand? What is the object of understanding?
Is? The thing to be understood is “life” itself. The thing to understand is “existence”, “life” and “humanity”.
It is conduct only. In order to understand existence one has to understand evolution in existence. chemical and
To understand the physical structure and composition. Chemical and physical composition, structure, state of matter and
Exists in existence as a vital state. All these things change from one form to another.
They keep changing like trees and plants themselves dry up and become soil after some time. its name
There is variability. This change is a continuous process in physical and chemical substances. similarly
Human and animal body structures are formed in the uterus and after some time they are formed into soil, water, air.
Are converted into.

After this, the thing to be understood is that life always remains the same. The only thing that can be understood in the human body
It is life itself. In the form of understanding, existence was understood as coexistence. of coexistence
It is only through perspective that we are able to live systematically in the entire situation. The goal of man is to live in the system,
Happiness is living in order. 'Life' suffers from problems by living in chaos. resulting solution
It is natural to seek constant research in life. There is no life in the atoms
Research also continues. This is the driving factor for change. to co-exist everywhere
There is a trend. Due to their tendency to co-exist, atomic parts also form atoms and atoms become molecules.
Keep forming into forms. Molecules also keep getting formed in the form of molecular bodies due to this tendency. like this
Through this, man can understand the existence of infinite planets and round existence. diversity in nature
The basic form is the number difference of atomic fragments contained in an atom. Based on the diversity of these diverse items
But, depending on the establishment itself, diversity is found in the compositions composed by them. such as plants
There are many types of compositions. All the things from which creations are made are in their natural form.
It is magnificent in form. It has a physical purpose which is participation in coexistence. origins of creation
The substances that are in me are also the glory of co-existence. The entire existence is based on this glory
Existing, certified, published. Man is a part of this existence itself.

Human beings are indivisible in coexistence. Human beings cannot escape anywhere except coexistence. to escape
The more I tried, the more troubled I became. Every man wants solution within himself, for that every
The man does research. Every person is entitled to research the system. When every person does research


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 33

When it is won then the person automatically understands the freedom of action. The objective of the research is clear, to live
The purpose is clear. The purpose of living is polarized at one place that humans want to live happily.
Is. To be happy the process is the same, the purpose of life, the purpose of human being must be fulfilled.
The purpose of life should be accomplished wisely. The purpose of life is fulfilled through wisdom. Life
One is satisfied and only a satisfied life makes man's objective solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence proof.
Is capable of keeping. This is the proof of living in the system. Lives in the system, all four goals remain available
Are. Such human tradition is beneficial for each other. Making each other wise is a favor
As a result, the meaning of coexistence becomes meaningful in the traditional form. coexistence in human tradition
At present the only arrangement is to maintain it. Whenever something contrary to coexistence happens, the system
Mistakes happen. Human freedom of action and imagination can mess things up. like earth
Was harassed a lot. It was not known what problem this error could cause when it was discovered.
There was no solution left. It is because of imagination and freedom of action that humans are always engaged in research.
lives. Research and research is meaningful only when it is for system, solution, prosperity, fearlessness,
To co-exist. Wise man -

, confidence in oneself

2. Respect for superiority

3. Balance between talent and personality
4. Social in practice

5. Becomes self-reliant in business.

These can be called virtues. With these virtues, humans are social. prove one's wisdom
To do is wisdom. Whatever the scholar exists, it is only the naturally existing human being. everyone
Research goes on in the unit itself but the matter of scholarship is only in the human being.

Currently, four actions have been described in humans: knowing, believing, recognizing and performing. To identify among these,
Subsistence is included in everything. Every object is recognizing every other object. That's why she is surviving.
Even one atomic part recognizes the other and as a result they live in harmony. stay with each other
Able to achieve, able to work. As a result, they can be published in coexistence. Similarly from molecules to planets


<newpage>

A4 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

The circles recognize and subsist on each other. In this way all the states of matter, life and existence
The proof of this is also evident from the method of complementarity in nature, that both recognize and subsist on each other.
Is. Man was not satisfied with just recognizing and living and doubts arose in this. of human
Two more verbs were added - to know and to believe. Human beings recognize only on the basis of the act of knowing and believing,
By living one becomes assured. The significance of the objectives has to be known and believed. purposes
Man becomes social only through knowing and believing. One cannot be social without being known
Coexistence is not proved. The reason for the great poverty of human beings is also that knowing and believing
Despite having the opportunity to know, did not accept it. In this situation man himself remains poor and others also
Makes you poor. Man has made the earth poor because of his own poverty. I understand that knowing
The believing part should be made stronger. Every person has the potential for this intensity. every
This intensity is needed in a person, it is expedient. To prove wisdom and to follow tradition
The meaning of knowledge is to flow in form.

Basically we can see the activities of life in five parts. There are two actions in each part, situation and
As speed. Like in every life there is a process called 'hope' which consists of two processes: selection and
Taste. What we choose to taste is a selection process. Savor is also a verb
These two are the mind names of that part where they occur. What is there for our taste in selection process?
Man has conceived all kinds of things and has collected and collected all kinds of things.
Is involved in doing. We have collected so far for convenience collection. The reason is that convenience
As much as we lag behind in knowing and understanding the purpose of collection, we are equally behind in collecting for convenience.
Have become helpless. Satisfaction point was not found anywhere in the convenience collection. While its practical purpose
On understanding, it is understood that it is shelter, food, adornment (instrument) for nutrition and protection of the body.
as needed. The need for telepathy, tele-hearing and tele-viewing becomes clear for the progress of society.
Is. All these things have become available and man is not satisfied on the basis of convenience-accumulation. this one
It is a matter of great irony.

Two more activities of life are “analysis” and “comparison”. The analysis process is life on its own.
Anything can happen, it does. In all analyses, it comes to identifying the purposes only.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 35

The purpose is basically to prove solution, prosperity, fearlessness and living co-existently. take the opposite
If we go to indulgence, overindulgence, man will not be able to survive anywhere.

Now science concludes that all humans will die within some time and the earth will be destroyed. he be
Have to go. If we think from the perspective of the earth, it will become suitable for human habitation only after the earth becomes prosperous.
After this, human beings descended on earth. The human being has to gradually awaken in the order of living consciousness.
Provided opportunity. Instead of being awakened, humans moved towards enjoyment and over-indulgence. indulgence-indulgence
Due to making direction, humans moved towards an endless series of convenience-accumulation. everyone's convenience
This earth does not have the material to fulfill the desire of collection. That's why this desire somewhere
Will dip. Therefore, it is necessary to make the entire facility collection as per the purpose. If it suits the purpose
The only thing that comes out is nutrition-protection of the body and movement of society. If the society moves towards progress, then the society will be united.
To participate in it is to participate in the universal system. man living in these enforcements
Then it becomes possible to live a happy, prosperous, peaceful life. exist in this manner
The purpose of life is to prove awakening. The wonderful source of success in this is that
Every person wants to live in the system. The basic element of the system till the end of illusion is fear and temptation. of awakening
Recognizing different values, evaluations and ambivalences that require developing wisdom
Needed.

Be victorious ! Have a nice one!! Good luck!!

०७०७ ० ० ०/०चचर


<newpage>

36 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

form of life

The indivisible form of mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul is “life” and they never get separated.

The mind has two functions - selection and taste. Instinct has two functions - analysis and comparison. two of mind
The form of work is illustration, contemplation. Intelligence has two functions - Ritambhara (resolution), perception. two forms of soul
Is - authenticity, experience.

Every life is continuously working in the form of these ten activities. Life illusion or awakening by doing these ten activities
Is found being certified as. In a confused state remains alive with sensitivity and
Out of ten activities, only four and a half activities are carried out by the living consciousness. to understand the rest of the verbs
The object does not exist, hence contradictions remain in life. These are four and a half actions - selection, tasting,
Analysis, illustration and half comparison. Selection is based on taste sensitivity. hands, feet,
The thing which looks good to the nose, ears, eyes, tongue etc. is adopted and the thing which looks bad is adopted.
Let's leave. The name 'Tulan' works in favor of sensitivity in the form of 'dear', 'interest', 'profit'. This 
Analyzes the meaning of the word and for this also edits the depiction action. overall
We have become ready to live considering the senses as life. This is called “confused”
Life'. Due to this, contradictions continue to arise. Is it right or wrong or more or less, that kind of thing
All the problems remain in front of humans. The mentality is the same as that of primitive man. there are too many things
Are. There are five and a half activities that need to be awakened for the human mentality.
Awaken with wisdom.

Four and a half kriyas are sufficient to recognize five senses and four subjects, in this
Humans live like animals and demons. Living as a human being is not accomplished only by four and a half activities. from him
There is no satisfaction. Now the basic issue is to prove all the ten activities of life in practice.
There is awakening. Certifying a small part does not amount to awakening. If the body is healthy then all the five
The sense organs and the five physical organs work in coordination with each other with precision. If out of this
If your hands do not work or your legs do not work, you will be called lame. He cannot be called a healthy man.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 37

Awakening cannot happen unless we transform the process of knowing and accepting into the process of recognizing and living.
Will not be able to connect with. Till now, with the process of identifying the senses and carrying out these
We have proved all the four and a half actions, the further actions are proved in practice, this is the awakening.
Is the basis of. This will happen only through the method of knowing and believing. In order to recognize and survive in the non-human world
Remains regular, works according to rules, system is organized in this manner.

The ultimate goal of living sensitively is fulfilled in the living world. If in sensitivity
If this was the final destination then there would be no need for humans to exist. no purpose in existence
There is no situation. There is a harmony, a thread, a musical arrangement in the entire existence, in its entirety.
Is the form of. Every movement, every situation, every stage is connected to a thread of significance. what is significance
To behave within the system and participate in the overall system. When life awakens, experience and
Our understanding is based on authenticity and our thinking and drawing should be done accordingly.
Starts. On the same basis, comparison, analysis and selection, tasting takes place. Now we have sensitivity
We prepare every idea and every plan by considering it as of utmost importance. While in awakening value and
Only evaluation comes. This is the practical form of awakening. We live in a sensitivity based manner
The work of developing the art of has been completed. Things needed to live this way
They are the rest of the world except humans. In which there is the world of living beings, plants and matter. These three men
You all know how it was used. It is also known how more and more people have become successful in this.
If we talk about failure for the sake of success then there is an imbalance. we just
The land has become cramped for the convenience collection work that has been done till now. It is possible to save the earth
No, this is also a question mark. In this sequence, whatever crimes are being committed on earth, they have to be stopped.
And we will have to understand the law without crime. For that, no matter how much science we talk about,
Or have entered art and education, this cannot absolve the crime. place to drown in
Is. There is a place for destroying the earth, there is a place for humans to harass each other. yet we
Big states have come together to form a body called the United Nations. in which many conferences were held
Till date it has not been decided whether the right to strategic power should be in this union or among the nations.
Should or shouldn't happen. There should be summer or there should not be. Similarly, every year for education
It is reviewed four times. Re-think, re-review but till date it has not been decided that human
What should be a pleasant education for him?


<newpage>

338 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

I have studied since childhood that every human child longs to do right. to get justice
The need resides in them. Truth is the speaker. As children grow up they learn to lie.
It happens because we have created such an environment that we cannot live without telling lies. business is full of lies
Has happened. There are lies in state governance, truth does not emerge in teaching. So where will the man go like this?
In this way, being bound by human circumstances, he forms his behavior and routine accordingly. like this
Man has not reached any goal and will not be able to reach it. All the big institutions and state institutions in all
Big projects are pending but we could not escape the crisis.

There is a need to get rid of this crisis but that will happen only when man is wise and
Whenever this happens, we will have to live by only one method and that is humane conduct. value, evaluation of
The relationship co-exists naturally. For this we do not have to make any laboratory. no one
Have to fight. For relationships, it is necessary to understand and understand the purpose in the sense of an integral social system.
Recognizing and living with him becomes a matter of survival. Knowing and believing are for the purpose only. without purpose
There is bound to be disorientation in becoming known, recognizing and living. Like knowing the purpose in relation to the earth
Missed. Failed to understand the purpose of the environment, due to which the integrity of the earth and the environment
Could not understand and mankind destroyed the earth. to understand it well
There is a need to find ways for human tradition to continue on this earth.
This is the proposal.

Due to confusion, human beings live for sense sensations and not cognitively.
Due to which man did not get satisfaction. An unsatisfied man does whatever he wants to do. satisfaction to dissatisfaction
The total work of bringing into consciousness is what we call in another language 'Awakening'. Satisfaction will come through wisdom. This only
It is a constant source of satisfaction. Life never dies. When there is wisdom in life, there is satisfaction.
It will remain constant. We have seen all these things. On this basis, this proposal is sensible for all human beings.
Have the right. Every person can research it. This is what I think. mankind in its future moments
The manufacturer's solution can be fully developed.

When life cells get mixed with soil, they become fertilizer. This arrangement for feeding the diet
Nature is easy. Fertilizer is this thing in natural form. Life cells are formed and composed of life cells.
The compounds get reconstituted and mixed with the soil and are called fertilizers. all the fertility in the earth


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 39

It is only after all that is established that humans get the opportunity to incarnate on this earth.
found. Ever since man was born, he attacked the forest. When the scientific era came and the forests were being destroyed, the minerals
But broke down. When both minerals and vegetation are exploited beyond their proportion, the earth
The source of fertility in everything has diminished and so has the vital air. Now scientists who use fertilizer (chemical)
We think that by creating, we do good to the world. In this regard, we think that what is in natural form
There is a system for making fertilizer, only then the fertility of this earth can be saved. which the earth's surface
There is no need of anything, the rivers take it to the sea and give it away. So what is the balance now? bush
All these things will remain balanced only if all these plants are present in dense form on the earth's surface. Now
What we do is take one problem and create another problem. problem to problem like this
Does not cover. No matter how big a problem a small problem is covered up, the problem will still be covered up.
Not there. All this is not a matter of complaint or condemnation. with an assessment of the events that occurred
There is a proposal to reconsider and there is no reason to describe the status quo and the need.

Overall, in this proposal, ten activities of life have to be certified in the tradition. ten verbs
For this, wisdom has to be proved through consciousness development and education. to know, to believe, to recognize,
is to be maintained. The satisfaction point of knowing, believing awakening and solution, prosperity, safety, coexistence easy
There is only proof. This experience is an easy proof. Therefore, every human being can make himself meaningful through experience based method.
Can make. One advantage in this is that there is no place for priesthood in this proposal and
Nor of power-centric governance. He is also free from the fact that I will send telegrams to everyone. every person his
Understanding can free one from illusion. If one person gets wet then the world will get wet, it is not enough,
This has been seen. Whoever understands this proposal will be impressed. assurance in all scriptures so far
There are many, but not a single person has emerged on earth as proof. so what will we do in tradition
What does not come has no place. a man had previously gained or lost much
How can we verify this, but the way to solve it will definitely come in the tradition. this this
It can also be seen that till now man has committed many mistakes and crimes and he has no tradition.
It doesn't happen. Whenever there is a tradition, it is easy to succeed by acting wisely. humanely
Tradition is the art of living. The tradition of wisdom can be achieved through diligence. of living
Art can be done through family law, social law, system law. Similarly, I also want to live my life.


<newpage>

40 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Art was found only on the basis of intelligence. The art of living that comes from wisdom is definitely
Have to live in solution and order.

Without justice, a man cannot become social and a man without justice can never create a community.
It cannot be without debate. In such a community, treason, rebellion, conflict and war are inevitable. would be exploited
And how can it be assumed that man became social through debate, rebellion, struggle and exploitation?
Let it be taken. If the conflict between communities is considered right, then later on everyone will fight, even if they die.
It is possible There should be an exemption for this, why keep it limited? So reconsider this issue
is required. When we take this to heart properly, we can see what we have done so far.
If we could not overcome it, we agreed to think. It is human nature to
Just thinks. Every person can think and research. It is also necessary to be satisfied with your research.
There is also a need to become a source of satisfaction for others.

What needs to be done to start from here? So the first issue is understanding, intuitive education and culture method.
May it become accessible to all. The art of living wisely should be adopted. earth and water in the art of living
How to live with air, how to live with vegetation, how to live with animal world and
How to live with humans. Not even one of these can be left out, one has to live with all of them.
Is. Every person can experience and evaluate. Every human being makes this claim. every
This tendency to claim is natural in human beings, it is not accepted by anyone if imposed, it is basic in every person.
It is in form, it is enthusiastic, it is spontaneous. This is the need of every human being. Despite having such an easy source, we
How do you expect us to save others? This is an amazing event and we all also
Have been believing. Now we have to think whether to believe on assurance or on the basis of evidence.
Have to believe. From an early age I have been inclined to believe on the basis of evidence.
Our idea came to pass. Our enthusiasm naturally increased. All this on the basis of finding evidence
As a result, there was a tendency to reconsider what happened and to put it before the human being.
We are inclined.

Just as the path has been closed in front of seven hundred crore people, the same must have happened with me also. to this
You can guess. I was also in the same situation as all humans. Education culture prevalent in the world,
Rituals and rituals, I have also passed through this same jungle. Despite passing neither our acceptance nor Macaulay education


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction and

Neither did she remain with traditional idealistic values. Our faith could not be stable in this. it
It became the basis and reason for us to run towards our overall objectives. We believe neither in the tradition of education nor
Because of the values formed in the tradition, perhaps we have become empty and this is the basis of running in our own way.
Made. Two incidents have already happened. One incident in this was important to understand life. in life itself
Wisdom has prevailed and a sensible law has come into our hands. On the basis of beliefs, we
Live in four and a half acts. Faith means accepting without knowing. which we believe after knowing
Its name is faith. There are ten actions that prove how to live with faith. i ten actions
I am proving that you too can do it. Coexistence has to be proved. In this sequence, these molecules
Atoms recognize each other and exist in the form of a system. Planets, spheres, vegetation, matter, all these
They are in arrangement, proving coexistence. In order to prove coexistence and purify
The form is that all the units are rich in energy in themselves. This existence of being full of energy is unique.
is an expression. All atomic parts, all atoms, all molecules are oriented towards order within themselves. This only
Thing is the main issue to motivate human being. My guess on this issue is that every knowledgeable person,
The scientist and the ignorant need co-existence mentality. With this mentality we humans
Can become. We are not going to rise to any glory in anything less than human condition.

The forests, mountains and minerals in front of us reveal their splendor only on the basis of coexistence.
Have done. It is rich in coexistence method. If there is no coexistence then someone will have to get protection.
was not. Its basic element is that every object (unit) in power is protected, controlled and endowed with energy.
Is. Those working in the form of molecules and vital cells have the same limit. coexistence in this also
Is luxurious. Due to the coexistence of one cell with another cell, it is determined by the multicell method.
Have been able to compose. The method of creating this is contained in the Prana Sutra located in the cell. Its
The name is composition method. There is continuous research in this. Many types of creations in the form of this testimony
is in front of us. With this testimony we can be assured that research into the life force as well as the atomic particles
There is a program.

The source of human research work is imagination and freedom of action. After that, thought power, will power,
The power of determination, experience and evidence, all these powers to research within oneself, to do research.
Remain ready. Along with this readiness, the action of living with these ten actions, the splendor of living.


<newpage>

42 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Can be certified. The main issue in these ten activities is to have experience and to live through empirical method.
to get. It is a natural source for living in an experience based manner. experiencing life
Just wants to. Wants to be wise, considers himself wise, experienced, jurist, reflective
He accepts it. Relationships are spread all around in existence; knowing, believing, recognizing and sustaining them.
To be satisfied with both as a result is the proof of the jurist.

Man is free within himself whether to become wise or not. If we want to be wise then we have to co-exist.
The circumstances to become wise are appropriate. It's all about becoming wise and not being wise.
There is material for what he wants but the results of both are different. Good luck, happiness happens in ignorance
Not the one. According to my experience, we did not want to live tied, burdened and fighting with anyone, similarly you
No one would want to live tied, burdened and fighting with anything and no one wants to live trapped.
In this way, every person wants to be intelligent somewhere. living in harmony with justice
Wants.

The relationship which is everywhere is connected, we do not recognize it out of confusion, this is the house of trouble. the moment
From that very moment we began to know and recognize our relationships; from that very moment we instilled in ourselves the innate values of life.
Result is achieved. As soon as we recognize our relationships, values begin to flow automatically.
When subsistence is evaluated, satisfaction is achieved, thus justice is proved. to the relationship
The condition of identification and the method of identification are determined based on the purpose. Children recognize “mother”
In the sense of nutrition. The source of protection is called 'father'. The source of evidence is called 'Guru', the source of curiosity is called 'Disciple!'
They say. It is being said in popular form that we have to remain mechanical, we have to remain proficient in mechanics. What
Is man a machine? Is there any parent who can answer this? I say man is not a machine. of all
The creator of these machines is human. The father of all the machines that have been created so far is man.
That's why machines cannot find humans. Machines are made less than humans, hence the study of humans is machine.
Can't do it. Secondly, all instruments are made of inanimate nature. The state of matter of all the instruments that have been made so far
Made from the same material. We have not been able to make even a single instrument from the material of life. This is something to remember.
Humans are a very distant thing. Haven't been able to make even a single device from life cells yet and are boasting about it
That man is a machine. To what extent would it be appropriate for human tradition? How to complete the meaning of Abhyudaya
Will do. How deeply ingrained is this thought that man is an instrument, an object for enjoyment. So far


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 43

This is what has been thought whereas it is not so. I am not a mechanical person when someone lives with his child.
It seems so.

I came to know only humans including consciousness. combined form of cognizance and sensitivity
There is consciousness. When I don't recognize the sensations, then I become mechanical. We are still in the mechanical world.
Didn't get any satisfaction. We have not found any way to work mechanically and get satisfaction. As such
If there is any guru, we invite him. I also listened to those who explained about hereditary method
Did not succeed in convincing us. Similarly, materialistic and relativistic theories also define human being.
Have failed to do. If man can be analyzed through these three principles then he can be accepted.
Go. Otherwise human should be recognized in the sense of human. To recognize the human in the sense of being human
This proposal is presented.

Before this, there was talk of the idealistic method in which God is presented as the savior.
We have seen God, He does not have any factory that can produce wires. God in what form?
saw? Saw God in a broader form. Seen as the equilibrium energy by which every unit is energized.
It is seen that every unit co-exists in the wider world. What else remains to be seen in God? if something
The rest is for you to see and show to the world. You are free to research. which i
You see, it is presented before you.

We were accomplished neither by sensitive method nor by mechanical method. to approach the senses in a sensitive manner
We bring into focus, as a result, the status and expectations of our sense-approach and the status of our brother.
And there is a gap between the two expectations. In this way, there is a need for human beings to divide into diversity.
According to which human being becomes individualistic through sensitive method. Second method, Bhogavadi method
We have already experienced that a person is an individualist. The third method, which was told by the ancestors
devotional-detachmentist | There is no end to individualism in these either. Thus human yet
No matter how hard I worked, how tirelessly I tried, how full of hope I tried with all my efforts,
The reason for failure has proved to be individualism. Individualism is the antithesis of coexistence. all these
It became the basis of human breakdown. Where is a person supposed to live? In coexistence. simple living in coexistence
The solution is to know, accept and recognize coexistence with humans. If we initiate this, then in the system
It is necessary to live. We will study further what constitutes participation in the overall system. Similarly we


<newpage>

44 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Animals also live in coexistence with the plant world. We take something from the plant world, plants
There should be something to give to the world. If you just want to take without giving anything then its name is Shekhchilli.
This blabbering method leads to nothing except being harassed and unhappy. This is the last step
Ending up in torture, ending up in misery, this is what is becoming. current events happening
This is what they are declaring.

To live in coexistence with the plant world i.e. forests, trees and material world, we
It is necessary to ensure coexistence. If we decide to co-exist with them
If we are incapable then we are not knowledgeable, we are not scientists, we are not wise. That means neither our knowledge is complete nor
Neither our science nor our wisdom is complete. Where will we live except trees and plants? to earth, mountains, minerals
Where will living beings live except this world? We have to live with all this, all this with us
There is living matter, there is wealth, there is opulence. We have to live with them. They also have to stay. in this determination
Human beings are the main issue. It is human beings who have lived this life confused, tortured and unhappy. now turn
need to take. There is a need to wake up. There is a need to recognize coexistence with everyone.
In the method of recognizing coexistence, we have found that it is within everyone's power to know this coexistence.
The first is testimony. The vital state originates from the material state, is influenced by it and continues to be glorious.
The vital state in itself is impressed, certified and glorious in the form of a system. The living world also has its own
There is testimony in the law including flesh. How can a human being understand his essence, how can he understand himself? Self
This is the main issue.

Through the knowledge of life one can understand the self. I recognize life as 'self', you also recognize it.
Can. They remain confused even after recognizing the body in its 'form'. Recognizing life as “self”
From this moment I live in the system. You too will be able to live the same way. Arrangements are not going to happen before this.
Nature is so natural, coexistence is a simple and perfect process. Life is also a thing to be understood, who will understand
That is also life. According to idealists, liberation is achieved only when the scene, philosophy and observer are united.
According to him, God is the visible, God is the seer, God is the vision. On these grounds a lot
Vandmay has been composed. Even after this, what is God like? where is? Why is it? Couldn't understand this. Its
Even after this, humans listen to things based on God and like it. This thing has been seen to look good,
The distance in getting better remains the same. After this they started calling humans as machines, that too could not happen but


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 45

Kept telling. As if we could not tell God, yet we kept telling. This is how we are stuck
Unable to think outside the box. The way to get rid of this is that life is eternal. body is part of life
This is a frequent occurrence.

The body is formed in the womb. Existence would evolve into the life term by the spontaneous method of atoms
Is. The body is created and remade again and again. There is a limit to the life state, after which it gets destroyed.
Is. The body is also a unit composed of life cells. A human being as rich in anatomy as Medhas could have been.
lies in the anatomy. On this basis I am verifying that the entire human existence
Can communicate to others. There is no purpose of Madhas beyond this. on this basis
Human anatomy (research is being done on the basis of Pranasutra composition method) has become the best and also
Whatever is left will also be completed later. What do we have to do in the meantime in the body journey? Life
Awakening has to be certified. As soon as we started this sequence, there was no need to hide the feelings.
Neither by scientific method nor by idealistic method. Many austerities have been prescribed against sentiments. Lot's of
Ascetics lived on this earth, but as a result of these penances, a certain understanding for which human beings yearn.
It has been there in practice, not in tradition. Now only he will verify what the ascetic lost and gained.
Common people have expected miracles from such an ascetic. They have roamed around behind him. i tell
Let there be no accomplishment or miracle in existence, there is a definite order in existence, a definite result, a definite
It is an achievement, it has a definite destination, it has continuity, I have seen it and understood it. such fixed destination
For this we you are the candidate. That definite destination is going to be achieved only through a definite method. study of humans
Leaving aside, calling cockroach the most developed creature, making chemical fertilizers, making pesticides
We will not reach the destination of humanity. Using human mentality as a form of money and exploitation
Even after doing so, man will not reach his destination. Its name is 'Intellectual Property Right'. World
The supreme institutions and courts are also trying to accept this. He has inexhaustible powers of life
Where to include. Can anyone answer how to use it as food?
Have you made such a proposal after understanding life? To what extent is it beneficial for mankind? My
Experience says that no matter how much we use human life force, it is not going to decrease. This
You can experience it, millions of people can see it by experiencing it. Any use of life forces
Do this, your powers become more fresh and intense. Tomorrow it becomes more intense than what you used today.

Is.


<newpage>

46 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

No matter how much you use this method, the life forces do not get exhausted. Don't limit them in numbers
Can. If you go to tie it, the one tying it will be perverted. In this way, how can we get away from rationalism?
They become slaves and become the basis of exploitation. This is an example of this. I think this is anti-human,
It is anti-coexistence by making intelligence the basis of exploitation, by making it the basis of treason and rebellion, by making it inheritance,
By saying that you have to pay tax for our intelligence, we announce the creation of a society. What is this
can be true? This is a matter to think about. According to me this is completely false. there is no limit to intelligence
This cannot be done and the intelligence of all human beings is inexhaustible, hence it cannot be limited in books.
Can. I have experienced myself to be much greater than what I have written about. any number of instruments
I am bigger than what I am made of. The human race is big. Man has written all the books and all the books
Every human is greater than. We don't see that we will use our common sense without coming here.

Perhaps after thinking about all these discussions, everyone can accept the justification in themselves. to accept
This is the last thing that comes in the sequence that we have to become wise. no problem in being smart
Not there. The problem lies in using it unwisely. See, this earth is one in itself. We will discuss this in section-
By dividing it into blocks we see it as a nation. Not only this, there was an army around each of those blocks.
Whenever they want, they create scuffles and skirmishes. The earth cannot be divided into pieces,
No one can escape after it happens. Considering it as a piece (when it is not a piece) can we
Let's do the truth. This is an issue to think about. This is an example of how our lies have become entrenched.
Second example, we thought of separating humans on the basis of color and race, just like animals.
Happens in. What kind of intelligence is this? Humans are evaluated on the basis of intelligence and not race.
And depending on the color. We have seen this in the form of good incidents before. Like - Das
Opposition to the era, opposition to the royal era. Since the Raj era, humans have been infected with the people's system, but the socialist
Or we have not yet become proficient in making arrangements on the basis of humanistic system. We
Believe that he has become an expert. The lie is here, we believe we have found it. What did you get? Have got the facility.
There is war, treason and exploitation, so where is the source of lies? The nation's thinking (the earth is disintegrated)
Thinking) Constitution, power centered governance. It was believed that the nation was supreme and the Constitution supreme. of the constitution
What turned out to be the essence of power-centric governance? What is power centered governance? Preventing mistake from mistake,
Stopping crime from crime, stopping war from war. The undertaking of common facilities is also under some constitutions.
I have done it. In which it is thought that if everyone has money then he will live and fight.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 47

Everyone declares that life has to be lived only through struggle, identity can be maintained only through struggle. In these announcements
What is the truth? The root of all lies lies in these declarations. Based on this, family, business,
Education etc. are buried under a bundle of lies. Some try to get free from it, some remain suppressed.
Our desire is to bring change in education.

Now we are ready to prove the ten simple activities of life. Acceptance of existence of life
It is present in humans. Every person says in his mind that he is alive, he is alive. But what is life?
What is the purpose of life? Who studies life? I understood the ten activities of life
Yes, I have experienced it and it has been confirmed in me. First understand the names of the ten activities of life.

4. Soul – It is a part of life which experiences co-existence. which I have taken as the middle
have seen. It remains active in itself as the nucleus of the constituent atom.
All other activities are performed in the form of its first environment, second, third and fourth environment.
it occurs. In the center of the life atom (soul) there are only two activities: - Experience and authenticity, spontaneous.
It is expressed in the form of which I am the proof.

2. intelligence

In the first environment, two actions have been seen taking place as per experience, realization and Ritambhara (resolution). Experience

The action of resolving to authenticate the evidence is manifested, whose name is Ritambhara.
3. Thinking and drawing are two activities in the mind-second environment.
4. In the third environment, comparison and analysis are two activities.

5. Selection and tasting are two activities in the mind-fourth environment. These are the ten actions to complete life
Are.
Till now man has been certified in four and a half activities. There is love, interest and benefit in comparison. dear, interest, benefit
It became a matter of working based on sensitivity. sensitivity, sense-based, body-based
It happens. Whereas life itself does the work of making the senses alive. The basic principle is to consider the body as life.
There is confusion. When the body is accepted as life, one has to walk according to the body, this is the basis of belief, knowing
Nothing happens. What should happen is that life should be considered life and body should be considered body. more of life
It is easy to evaluate the body on the basis of purposes. If this happens then living with human consciousness
Is made. One has to live within the system. If these are not evaluated, there will be chaos. live in order


<newpage>

48 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

It is necessary to evaluate life on the basis of purpose and evaluate the body on the basis of utility.
Be based on. Utility of body, life to prove its awakening in human tradition
Is. Human anatomy was not created by humans. When a child is born after the formation of a human body,
He remains alive. After getting a living baby, we accept that this body is life. a few days
Later that child also accepts the same. In this way, tradition remains trapped in itself and
To get out of this trap, parents will have to be wise.

The baby's body is formed in the womb and it is run by some "life". “Life” is there in nature. Body
“Life” starts running in the fourth-fifth month. Thus the union of body and life
It happens in the uterus itself. 'Life' is not the body. The point of recognizing this is as follows. any part of the body
There is no expectation of justice, religion or truth in any part of the body. But we do justice to every human being,
We keep waiting for the system, for the truth. Fulfillment of these expectations is the ten actions of life.
Has to be certified. For the body to remain alive, it is necessary to have life in the body.

“Life” starts from itself, from childhood, the two activities of the mind – selection and taste.
One does analyze through analysis and comparison. In comparison, it is done only on the basis of love, interest and benefit.
Is. We do depict an action of the mind. Human beings fulfill their general aspirations due to the action of illustration.
And all the objects of ambition have been depicted and achieved. to receive
Even after this we did not reach the arrangement. Idealism and good wishes were presented in many ways. Physical
And successful in popularizing the teaching-training program of frenzied convenience-collecting tendencies.
Despite this, convenience collection was not accessible to everyone. We kept thinking of these achievements as the best
It is an achievement, an achievement of humanity. The achievement of human rights is the achievement of exploitation, struggle
Is. Hearing these things makes one laugh. There is also regret. How can we accept that we are human beings?
Have achieved everything, have studied the human being. This is an issue to be reconsidered. Body
In what is called science, only the body structure and process are studied and
It is said that humans are being studied. You think about cutting the body, the muscles, the bones
Can humans be studied by counting? Study of eyes, ears etc. in living human body
How will humans be studied if done? In this way human beings are loaded with a bundle of lies in tradition.
Whereas we have not studied humans and boast that we have studied humans.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 49

Have not studied existence and say that we will rule over it. human tradition in this manner
Is buried under the burden. Now there are only two options, either get out of this or get buried and die. destiny itself
We are also taught that it balances itself. to do as much as mankind can
Later, nature will create such a situation that humans will no longer exist on this earth. on the issue of environment
As soon as we hear the commotion, solutions are being thought of to find out how many people will survive and how many will die. Some?
People of the country think that our country should be saved, people of some religions think that the people of our religion should be saved. save
He is the one who gets imaginary assurance from mysterious God, Supreme Soul, Gods, Goddesses, Avatars, Angels etc.
Let's take the name of someone they get. There is something religious about it. the end of the rest
Our thinking on this issueIt is going to happen. Where do you want to go after saying all this? What will happen if you think like this? 
It is that in the name of religion and state and education, everyone has gone astray. thoroughly. of religion in the throne of religion
There is no universality. Among all the religions in the name of religious throne, there is no universal religion.
Is. No education, no evidence. Where to get religion from?

There is no universal concept of state in the throne. We have to work to save the state.
What to do? Will struggle. The total spice of conflict is rebellion, treason, exploitation and war. Who are these four spices?
makes. Nature or human. When it was observed and studied, it was found that this spice is beneficial for humans.
Only he creates it, he creates it out of illusion. There are only two great institutions – the throne of religion and the throne of state. most powerful sara
Those who are powerful and have all the resources, these two are the throne. Both these seats have thus become vacant. Business
There is no need to ask for the throne. She is already ready for exploitation. Shiksha Gaddi was asked about his
There is no system of guidance or direction to identify the identified goal. Now
Tell me, what should a common man do? There is no way out of these four traditions (religion, state, business, education).
Not going to get it. Finding a way and making it is adventure. That path is wisdom, honesty,
Responsibility and participation will be comfortable. No goal is achieved through violence. by fighting
Needs are not fulfilled. Even after this, its tradition has been maintained. This is also a big illusion
Is it done or not? Now the point of wisdom is that we should be wise. sanity check self accepted form
The consciousness developed in is through spontaneous study. You cannot become wise by examining me. you yourself
Then you will be wise when you check it. I spent thirty years racking my brain after investigating the world. us somewhere
No trace of understanding was found. When we have tried for twenty-five years and examined ourselves, then we will gain wisdom.


<newpage>

50 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Found the place. Whatever we achieved from past efforts, we wanted to hand it over to humans through diligent method. This 
This is an effort in order.

By now you must have realized that coexistence is the ultimate truth. Our survival is coexistence
If we understand that this is the ultimate religion, then all understanding is appropriate for it. It is very accessible. My
According to him, lying is more difficult, living in truth is easier. It is much easier, I have experienced it.
Earlier, when I was surrounded by questions, it was so difficult to live. When the solution is found then free from questions
It was done and life became easier. If you also like this then our confidence will increase. This
Friends have seen the matter, you too can check it if you want. Justice begins by checking and comparing.
Starts with appropriate behavior. Do we understand relationships or do we maintain relationships?
To check whether we are able to evaluate the values inherent in it, whether we are able to come to a place of mutual satisfaction or not.
Is the issue of. If they start investigating, then they do not get certainty about their beloved, interests and benefits. who is dear to us
I thought you wouldn't like it. What we found beneficial for you may not be the benefit you are satisfied with.
We will not be able to do as much as we did. All humans are trapped in this. In this way there is equality in love, interest and benefit.
There cannot be a basis.

What should be done to get rid of this, instead of these three balances (beloved, interest, profit) there is another balance (justice, religion,
True) is kept. When we start comparing from the viewpoint of justice, it is called contemplation. Justice ties us
It can be understood only after recognizing it in the meaning of the system. The relationship came to be recognized as a result
Value started to be fulfilled, its fruitful form is evaluation, and ambivalence started to be satisfied, its name is
Is justice. Justice is that which can satisfy both the parties in a balanced manner. If both parties are not satisfied
So there is no justice. In this regard, has anyone asked us what should be done if someone commits a crime or mistake?
Someone commits a crime/mistake because we do not make him wise. you the culprit
Why do you go with him, why don't you go with the right person? There are many men who commit no crime
We don't have any problem with them. We evaluate each other and find mutual satisfaction
Are only. How to forget this? Firstly, this proof is in front of you, you need it that
No. I think everyone is waiting for this. There is only so much difference between me and you, I am painfully
Took one step forward. I can verify that I have achieved this. to understand


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 5

Later you will also verify the same. There is so much happiness, so much satisfaction in it. Thus all mankind is verified
You will be able to do it after understanding.

Where will you find wisdom? In educational institutions with diligent method. What is an educational institution? All
It is a combined expression of the parents. The work that is done to authenticate with understanding, understanding
Its name is education. Without understanding and understanding, teaching cannot take place. For wisdom,
Educational institutions are responsible, every parent is responsible. Every family is a source of education. Therefore
Thinking about integration, privatization, governmentisation, etc. for educational institutions will do nothing and nothing.
Has happened. It should be seen directly as a parent educational institution. Human welfare lies in this
justice giverwill be. This form emerges from wisdom. We have to master the ability to dispense justice. 
The capability will have to be proven in itself. Only when we are accomplished with both these things will we be able to do justice. Both
We understand only when we are endowed with things. How will you judge when you don't understand? big courts
If we do not find a justice who understands justice, what will other people do? at least justice in life
It must happen. The proof of this is humane conduct. Justice is less than humane conduct.
It just doesn't happen. Nothing more is needed.

Six (6) activities of life are completed with contemplation. Analysis Very in the sense of dear, interest, benefit
Have done some. General aspiration and ambition related objects for the needs of the body
Have produced a lot. Apart from this, things like making bombs, missiles, warships etc.
Making these things is not humane. These are useless and cause destruction. logical method and phenomenon
This is proved by law. Through the elemental method, through the logical method, through the behavioral method, things can be made available to human beings.
Use is proven. We want to be happy through elemental method. We are happy as a matter of principle
We became practical. To prove it we are practical, this is the logical method. This
It is a question of proving a person through logical, philosophical and practical methods. as much as we
Talk, read, write, reason on the basis of method. Meaningful logic touches the essentiality
This is the glory of communication.

If our communication touches the next person with something meaningful then our communication is meaningful. If the same element
It indicates the meaningfulness of behavior (behavior has meaning, human purpose is solved, prosperity,
Fearlessness, co-existence (to point out these four) and if it gives understanding then practical knowledge is experienced.


<newpage>

52 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

There was metaphysical knowledge in this. Logic is also needed for theoretical knowledge, logic is also needed for practical knowledge.
The first achievement is to evaluate oneself and on what basis will one's family members be evaluated. of values
On the basis, on the basis of relationships, on the basis of mutual satisfaction. This is proved by the fact that we have become judicial in practice.
can do. Then man became human. Be human first and then be autonomous based on intelligence
Gone and six qualities arrived: -

, confidence in oneself

2. Respect for excellence

3. Balance in talent

4. Balance in personality
5. Social in practice
6. Self-reliant in business

When I understood these six qualifications, I felt autonomous. just like us in the family
Be able to prove your intelligence and prosperity. Due to this truthfulness, I presented myself before you.
Every person would want to be a gentleman, the minimum qualification for gentleman is justice. justice as i
I see it is relationship, value, evaluation and ambivalence. After this we understood that
Every person is a seeker of justice since birth. Wants to behave correctly. truth is the speaker
What should happen in education on this basis? Every human child should have a sense of truth, right action-
To behave, there should be practice, there should be method, justice delivery capability should be established.
All three things can happen in an educational institution and then human tradition is formed automatically. before this
Human tradition will not be formed. Human tradition will have to start with justice only. main issue for justice
It is a natural relationship which is eternal and human relationship is continuous. when a human makes a mistake
Where does one go for guidance? We have seen that if there is someone in the family who verifies justice
He will give guidance. If not in the family, there will be someone in the village who will provide guidance. If it is not even in the village then the country
It is an innate tendency to try to enter the earth. It is natural that every human being needs improvement somewhere.
There is a trend.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 53

There is already evidence that they want change in the world. Can't figure out what changes are needed
Well, this is the proposal for that. Public expansion will happen only through education and culture. humanitarian education in education
should be provisioned for. For every person to be certified by living justly, we have to
Wisdom will have to be given. For this, consciousness will also have to be studied along with science in education.
If we do not understand consciousness then we cannot understand existence and if we do not understand existence then
How will the arrangement be understood? It is life (consciousness) that understands existence. therefore conscious object
It is also important to include the study of this in education.

Psychology should include the cultural aspect (intelligence), inclusion of human consciousness, identity
Should be. Both sensitivity and cognitive ability are present in human consciousness. to philosophy
Must teach with authenticity. When we teach with authenticity, only humanity will come, not physical.
And not a spiritual method. Therefore humans can be intelligent, existence is natural for intelligence
Is expedient. What I have experienced about the evidence is that what I have understood, learned, done,
I live and prove myself in explaining, teaching and making others understand. We need to be certified in these three disciplines.
It has been necessary. There is no fourth type. It is important to be perfect in understanding. little to learn, little to do
There may be shortage. Till now we have done the work of learning and doing very well but
There are zeros in order to understand. We consider learning-teaching, doing-doing as the foremost values. not from this
No solution was found nor did humans get any relief, we kept getting stuck somewhere. So now human
There came a need to believe in oneself and to study the entire existence naturally. human being
Becoming certified in understanding becomes possible only after study and practice.

The study of human beings was left behind somewhere between the idealistic method and the materialistic method. idealist
In the law, gods and goddesses and God were considered supreme and humans were left behind. Gods and Goddesses, to understand God
In this matter, the study of human beings was abandoned. Human beings were left out even in the materialistic method, experiments
The instrument was caught by the method, that is, the instrument was proved. Idealism should be evidenced by scriptures, books and literature.
And it became instrumental in materialism. In this way man was devalued and
Being caught in the grip only added to the illusion. In this way man got frustrated and suffered due to illusion,
Tortured. Now how can humans be saved? Everyone has been giving assurance of salvation earlier also but
How long will this continue if there is no proof of salvation?


<newpage>

54 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Alternatively, here the basic source of human salvation is wisdom. The biggest seat is the educational institution. in that
Consciousness should be studied along with science. Study of coexistence without study of consciousness
How it will happen? Both these parts are untouched in educational institutions, in the education world, in the education process. Second,
In psychology, for the study of humans, human consciousness is understood and proven,
The need is also understandable. Therefore, the culture aspect should be studied in psychology. third,
There should be authenticity with philosophy. Till now we have believed that humans can read and
If he recites it, he becomes a scholar. Whereas he does not remain a scholar. Scholar is the form of wisdom and knowledge
Existence in itself is easy. Without understanding coexistence, without understanding life, humanistic
There is no scholar without conduct. This is understandable, a style of thinking is also formed, a plan is also made,
An action plan is also prepared and as a result it is also certified. If we do not understand then where will the thinking style come from?
Will get. One of the thinking styles that has been formed without understanding is for convenience collection and the other thinking style
It is idealism, sacrifice, detachment, detachment and devotion. In this too, crores of people invested themselves and showed their patience,
Showed courage and loyalty. No outline of a united society could be seen from these two.
Man has always been working tirelessly but man was aimless and directionless. what i tried
That was just to answer our questions. We will get heaven, we will get money, we will get wealth, any such goal
Wasn't mine. There was only one thing, if we have any doubt then we will definitely get the answer to it.

Let me explain the meaning of the words yoga and combination. Yoga means union. like we're on our way somewhere
If any stone or man is found then it will be called Yoga. Coincidence means union in the sense of completeness. meaning of complete
It is human life to live within the system. Parampurna means becoming authentic as a human being. living in order,
It is human desire to become authentic. But if we don't get that then we are forced to follow the tradition.
Adapts accordingly. Yoga and coincidence are always there. There have been many attempts for perfection (success
is a different matter). Man has sacrificed a lot for perfection. Sacrifices definitely have results.
When you break something, success is seen only in the last hammer, but in the efforts of all those who came before it.
If there is no hammer then success cannot be achieved with that hammer. All injuries have resulted in success.
The success that I got is also due to the efforts made earlier, thus the contribution of the entire human being.
I accept that this incident happened as a result of this.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 55

The biggest advantage of this was that I did not feel egoistic. I also have a lot of people who present themselves with arrogance.
Less have come. People who come with any amount of ego, their ego is quenched after two-three steps.
Was seen happening. With me, all the meetings happened naturally with gentleness and simplicity.
But it is not necessary that every gentleman I met accepted our point. Very
We respect even those who don't accept it. It is not their fault that tradition is upon them.
Has been loaded. So whether anyone accepts it or not, I remain happy. chronological coincidence for everyone
The seed of good wisdom has been planted. We cannot say when it will blossom and bloom. every man
He wants good. I want that the possibilities at the core of wishing good should be made more appropriate.
When coincidences occur, people meet in the sense of a solution, in the sense of a system, in the sense of a united society.
The meeting of people with similar ideas and expectations is not a coincidence. Like two thieves, two robbers, two criminals
Meeting is not in the sense of solution, arrangement, hence it is not a coincidence.

If we could live a righteous life, our family became the place of our authenticity. eyes of family members
In we're doing fine it comes. As many friends and family as we have after walking justly in the family
I can see our identity among them with accuracy. After that it is within our rights to live a just life
I am able to make our identity clear even to the visitors who come.

Every human being keeps his significance and success in his desire. Our wisdom is,
The source of our noble desires. We can never forget this source. auspicious accept every person
It is the wish of every person and we all are waiting for the auspicious thing to happen. while waiting
The issue of time relation comes up. Recognition of relationships is recognition of the purpose (value) inherent in them. This only
Is study. After recognizing the purpose, man naturally becomes dedicated and then becomes proficient.
Is. After becoming proficient, results are bound to come. This is the method of success which is quite simple. Abhyudaya all
Remains connected with relationships. The purpose of relationships is to bring about all-round solutions and happiness.
Is in meaning. It is only in the sense of solution that we love, it is only in the sense of solution that we are grateful, we make friendship.
Have faith, live well in human behavior and experience happiness. form of values
Affection, affection, trust, affection, gratitude, pride, love, reverence, respect are formed. for our rise
Wherever help has been received, from whomever it has been received, its acceptance is called “gratitude”. of gratitude
Along with this, other values start becoming meaningful on their own. After gratitude, affection, love and trust become meaningful.


<newpage>

56 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

There is no such person who has not received help in some way or the other. everyone's
With help, man grows, becomes capable and becomes certified. All the numbers in this sequence
There are relations (seven relations) in which only value is evaluated and there is continuity of relations. value in relationships
There is no continuity of relationships if they are not evaluated. Even in the normal course whom we consider as our relatives
It is believed that we behave well with them. Traditionally we equate relationships with strength, wealth, intelligence,
Recognize on the basis of age. While the relationship is first in the sense of emergence, second in the sense of nourishment,
Thirdly in the sense of conservation, fourthly in the sense of utility complementarity, fifthly in the sense of utility, sixthly
In the sense of purpose. The paramount priority for relationships is in the sense of authenticity. based on evidence
Someone is satisfied. Values arise naturally in life. Like: When you and I meet
The trust value between us starts with the value flowing naturally. By this method we get relations
Become capable of recognizing, evaluating values and achieving mutual satisfaction. What is the bigger benefit than this?
Done? Till now we have been judging relationships based on fear and temptation; value instead and
Evaluation solutions come to a state of prosperity. If fear and temptation have no value then they are valued.
What will happen? There is temptation along with fear, fear along with temptation, it is a matter of keeping quiet for a while. the disease is
The one from there stays there. Justice was not fulfilled even in the courts because fear and temptation interfered with justice.
There can be no basis. For centuries, they have been persuading each other only on the basis of fear and temptation.
Have been. But till now no arrangements have been made. We can agree that fear and
Temptation is not a value nor can it be evaluated in relationships.

Man has not yet reached values. Had I gone to values, value would have been expressed, value
It would be certified, evaluated and naturally judged. Justice is decided in the courts
No. One party agrees to these decisions out of fear and the other out of temptation. ambidexterity ever happened in this
No, it is not possible. We have been completely unable to get justice. Despite this, development
Let's claim. Think for yourself what development means. Freeing every human being from fear and temptation
Wants this destiny to be easy. This is also beneficial for humans. Naturalness is also beneficial. like this
The relationship is based on purpose. The purpose is solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence, there is a process for this
Live in order. Living in the system means participating in all five dimensions. There are five dimensions:
, Education-culture, 2. Justice-security, 3. Health-restraint, 4. Production-work, 5. Exchange-fund.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

By this method, we can move from living in the family and system to participating in the five dimensions and becoming a part of the overall system.
Are partners. In this way, continuous enthusiasm, happiness and unwavering courage are created for the human being. Justice
After comes religion. Religion means understanding based on experience, which is in the intellect i.e. solution. Solution
The meaning of this is human religion, living in the system is human religion, this is Abhyudaya. Man survives in chaos
If it is there then it suffers from problems but when it lives in the system it remains resolved. man remain problematic
Doesn't want. Therefore man wants to remain satisfied. Solution – Happiness, human happiness is righteous. Problem
- Man does not want sorrow and problems. There is no solution based on fear and temptation and everything
The world is hell-bent on finding solutions based on fear and temptation. based on fear and temptation
But to make the system equal, we still do teaching and training even today, whereas this would create a system.
Can't. If something is created somewhere on the basis of fear and temptation, then from that very moment it
The breakdown program begins. Therefore, arrangements will be made on the basis of price and evaluation only. Family
System, technology, administration, state and system at all levels will be arranged through this method. of arrangement
This means that human beings can present their authenticity, can maintain justice and can participate in the system.
Can participate.

The system of education and culture is to impart the formula of understanding in the family, in every person and in every child. make sense of it
It can also be said to popularize it. First told you the philosophy; Thoughts after darshan; Idea
After the scriptures; Planning after scripture. One of the schemes is Jeevan Vidya Yojana in which human family human
There is full scope for becoming full of consciousness. With this understanding man can live as a system in the family.
Is.

The second plan is humanization of human education and culture. It has education system for children. Such
We used Shiksha in a school (Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh). This is five years of experience. of life science
The impact of humanizing education on Aadhaar was seen there. people have been saying
That students are influenced by the environment, which we continue to ignore. If the influence of environment
If so, how would we be able to do research? Evidence is beginning to emerge from this school that the influence of children
Families and their family members are beginning to have an impact on the environment. Children as their life
Started recognizing it and started accepting that it is very important to live in the system. As a result, many
From then on children started evaluating things like TV, meaningless conversations etc. with disinterest and this


<newpage>

58 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Started thinking that everything is useless. Also in the village there was enmity between one family and another,
There used to be fights and lawsuits. That too gradually started subsiding. Now according to my knowledge in those villages
The quarrels and troubles have reduced. This is what we call the influence of the environment on the behavior of children.
And accordingly we say that this education has strength.

In the humanization of education, we will study the conscious aspect along with science. study of consciousness
means life. Will make you study life and life awakening. chemical-physical composition
Will get the study done. Complementarity in creation and structure for humans and how humans are complementary to this world,
We will study how it will be useful. Along with this, the action aspect in alternative philosophy
Will get the study done. Kriya Paksha means philosophy for human understanding. proof of intelligence
Should be. With wisdom we create our identity. Then only coexistence would be recognized
It is necessary to fulfill the values and ambivalence in evaluation is naturally formed.
Order is an eternal truth in coexistence. In what sense is eternal truth? - each one in existence his
There is a system with substance: just like a vine tree, it contains the essence. Peepal tree conducts itself
Is maintained. Peepal tree will have Peepal fruits and Peepal seeds, its qualities and religion will be the same.
It's his conduct. Similarly, the behavior of the entire plant world and living world is certain and it has its own
Are published in their conduct. This is what is called system with substance. human behavior still fixed
It could not happen, because man has not yet been able to live in the system. We haven't found an arrangement yet
But there is a need for arrangement and we have come here. To get order, we need order along with our self.
I will have to live. What is Swatva? The self is clear in the form of state and the form of self movement 'Swatva is full of humanity'
Behaviour. Humanity has values, character, and morality. Proof of value is relationship, value assessment
Ambivalence. Which has to happen in the family. There is no family worth less than ambivalence, there is no family worth more than that.
No need, this is humanity. For this to happen, man will have to live within his values in a spontaneous manner.
Living within the system will lead to character. Character should be defined by self-wealth, self-respect, compassionate work behavior.
Has been recognized as. Morality (good use and protection of body, mind and wealth) creates fearlessness.
Is. In this way, humane conduct is complete. In this, humans can live very well and confidently.

Is.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 59

After this comes the definition of human: “The one who realizes the impossible is called human.” In other words
Whatever comes to the mind of a human being (like making a machine, building a house etc.) is the one who realizes it and the mind.
He is optimistic about health, that is, every human being lives in the hope of happiness. Man is happy. This
In this way values, morals and nature of character are understood. As far as refusal is concerned by definition
It is a matter of realization that man has attained it. The thing that makes refusal come true in two ways
It happens. One is general aspiration (housing, food, adornment) and the other is ambition (television, television,
Distance) As far as conduct is concerned, it is nowhere to be found. Neither found in education nor in the constitution
Is. There is no provision in the Constitution to evaluate humane conduct. power center
There is no provision in any constitution to certify humane conduct because it
There is no human constitution. Therefore there can be no human behavior in this. humanitarian
No one could prove the conduct. Couldn't muster the courage to evaluate like this, wisdom like this
Could not add. Without fulfilling these shortcomings, humans will not be able to live happily and will fight.
Will keep doing it. Wisdom is the only way to get rid of this garbage. education for this
It is very important to humanize. Consciousness of nature with science, action with philosophy in education
aspect, cultural aspect along with psychology, inclusion of human and humanity in geography and history.
do. In this way, by including humanity in education, human tendency naturally develops in the system.
To survive, to prove oneself. Solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence with your identity
We will reach the place of opportunity and success in life. Therefore education-culture humanity
It is accomplished only with this, not through any other method. The values we talk about now are our
They are based on popular beliefs and do not have universality.

The third point is 'truth'. What is the truth? Truth is understood as existence and coexistence. Truth
Once understood, the system becomes understandable. existence itself as nature imbued with being
Study is done. Non-human nature and humans complement each other. the art of living this way
Only human system is possible when it is developed. After understanding this, we will live only in justice,
Will live only within the system, will prove authenticity in family, behavior and otherwise will focus on power.
The government will not do anything. In this way one reaches a comfortable state of confidence, trust and prosperity.


<newpage>

60 Life Sciences: An Introduction

Right now we are taught science by saying that whatever is there is chaos and uncertainty. to read this
As a result, every student accepts himself to be in disarray. resulting in chaos
An example of this is that the whole earth is sick. The temperature is increasing in this earth. what is the reason
Is? The temperature is increasing due to extraction of minerals, coal and oil from inside the earth. How did it increase, why did it increase
They know this and we also know this. Coal and oil are the only substances that absorb heat.
Are. If the substance that absorbs heat from the earth is removed, the temperature of the earth is bound to increase. increase in temperature
What happened was that the sea level started rising. How much can the water surface rise? so where we are sitting
The water level may be two to three hundred feet high from there. Some mountain peaks survive. This is how we are stuck
went To fix this, all the big countries come together and call upon everyone to come together and fix this.
History makes it clear what to do and who started it. Coal and oil for fuel without understanding
The use of the substance is an injustice done to the earth and will it be compensated in future or not?
It will be tested only after it stops. We will talk further about how this will stop. on the earth
Humans are proven to survive in high and low temperatures. It has also become possible to measure this difference. So much
People living across temperature differences have the same body temperature. Why so? outside heat
The body has all the fluids to maintain a balanced body temperature despite its high and low temperatures.
Similarly, to maintain the temperature of the earth, minerals, coal and oil are present inside the earth.
Is substance.

So now the issue is how to stop the extraction of minerals, coal and oil? there is a solution
There are so many rivers flowing on our earth whose flow power supplies the amount of electricity required on earth.
50 times more electricity can be available than that. For this, plants generating electricity from flow force
needs to be made. There are some other machines which will run on oil only. Vegetable oil is used for such machines.
Engines that run on electricity will have to be made. For this, there is oily vegetation on earth and in large quantities
It can be grown. I think so. People are paying attention towards solar fuel and more and more
Urgent attention is required. To use solar fuel in more practical devices and plants
Is required. In this way, the Earth receives more energy than is required.
It is understandable that it is available on the surface. In this way the use of coal and petroleum should be stopped
Vegetable oil, flow power, wave, wind and sun heat can be used instead.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 64

It is possible that after that it can be tested whether the earth itself will support the pits that have been dug so far.
How capable it is of bridging.

Thirdly, another sword is hanging on the human. Whenever there has been an incident of formation of water on this earth,
If research is done into the origin of such an incident, then this incident has occurred due to the coincidence of cosmic rays.
Cosmic rays are the only source of this phenomenon, now it has become its continuation. now on earth
The environment has deteriorated. This may create a possibility that if the same cosmic rays are in the opposite direction
If this method is used properly, water may disappear from the earth. Earth's cover from whatever source
Scientists have discovered that it has been damaged. Merely locating the source will not correct the damage.
is required. This is what comes in the mode of making, all the atrocities that have been done to the earth.
Will have to stop. Mineral oil, coal and toxic gases and liquids that humans have used as munitions
It is read in the paper that the Earth's protective shield has been damaged due to the very thing it was made for. if this
If the truth is, then all these processes have to be stopped which damage the earth's environment. human
Thinking of compensation after causing harm is a great quality whereas others
This does not happen in living beings. But man has not yet done any work to compensate the earth.
Rather, more deterioration is seen every day. How long will you do it? Will this mess ever be fixed?
Will you do something about it?

The earth has been making provisions for humans to live safely, but humans have destroyed the entire earth with their intelligence.
Revolted against, attacked and exploited the earth. Earth's environment since ancient times
Is engaged in spoiling it. After the scientific era, there was more deterioration, hence we are in trouble.
There is a possibility that if a person drowns in a river, he also emerges. So the possibility of saving the earth
Whether we want to practice it or not is up to our thoughts. thoughts create situations
If we want, the circumstances become favourable, if we don't want, they become unfavourable. your intelligence
Due to being confused, they failed to appreciate the reality and the glory of the natural environment.
As a result, we got harmed in various ways and destroyed nature. until we damage
Celebrate well-being but also fear the possibility of self-harm. This is the analysis of the past.
If human consciousness is ready to live in human system, then only the knowledge of life becomes available to each other.


<newpage>

62 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

It reaches, proof of this has been found. We have been able to prepare this in a school. its auspicious results
In view of this, there is a need for its universalization.

No human does any misdeed without foolishness. According to me, every person wants good and
Is responsible for. As a result, sooner or later one will feel responsible for all the good. this to all good
It is only in the sense of feeling that we talk about awakening of life. Freedom from accumulation of convenience and detachment from devotion
Instead of creating a healthy society, I feel like talking about wisdom and awakening life.
Came. The process of perception and resolution taking place in the intellect can be authenticated only when the intellect has sense of justice,
There should be understanding of truth and religion. When all these three are realized then the intellect is called Sadduddhi. as a result
Man accepts the responsibility for all good things. Understanding existence as eternal coexistence
We become aware of being present. Which we study.

A glimpse of this was traced through the mathematical method of fission method. fragmentation method as much as possible
Discovered how to make a powerful atom bomb. The purpose of making atom bomb should be anything other than destruction
not can. The amount of destruction that was done (like Hiroshima) and the repeated experiments to destroy it.
This has caused more damage to the environment. A handful of people did this, they will suffer Rs 700 crores. Destruction
How was the common man harmed by what he did? “Current” zero through mathematical method-
Often it happens and the number of “present” is not available. Whereas it is the opposite, it is always present.
Nothing happens except the present. All the glory of existence is ever present while the method of fragmentation
Since is not present at all. In this way, such a bundle of lies has been created that it takes a human being to emerge from it.
You have to believe in yourself. As long as humans believe in the atom bomb, the sword, the flag, the stone
Till then man will not believe in man, this is the truth and only then will you believe in yourself.
When he understands himself. To understand oneself, every man and woman must understand justice, religion and truth accurately.
It will be a revelation of life. Where does justice come from? On the basis of relation, where does religion come from?
From the system, where does truth come from existence? Coexistence is always effective, in the manner of coexistence. human
Except for this, the entire grandeur of the remaining three stages is present in the system.

The desire to be in the “system” is inherent in humans too to some degree or the other. confused text
One cannot understand the system by reading books. After realizing the law, along with living in the law.
Man becomes capable of practicing religion. Human religion is to live in “system”. of everything in existence


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 63

Living in the system and participating in the system is seen as religion. religious existence of matter
(to be). The Dharma of Pranavastha is existence with affirmation. Religion of survival, hope for survival, including affirmation
Is published as existence. The religion of the state of knowledge (human) is continuous, existence, affirmation, happiness with hope.
Has been seen to happen. Happiness is human religion. How will there be happiness? From solution Solution will come in the system
By living. Living in the system depends on human wisdom and wisdom is the overall survival,
Being aware of life and humanity is called complete conduct.

After understanding the system, it is natural to have loyalty and resolve in the system. After commitment, commitment
Human beings live in a system, by living in this way we can create a good situation. hence humane
Education method will have to be adopted, as a result good wisdom will emerge. There is no solution without this, which
Can save the earth from destruction. We should understand this. It is needed. don't understand
The situation will force you to understand.

Thus living in religion means solution, prosperity, safety, coexistence easily proven sovereign system
To live in, is to live in an unbroken social system. By this method the universal system of human beings becomes humanity.
I have seen. Mankind is one, deeds are many; Human religion, one solution many. different types of humans
One can do good deeds to remain happy. Many deeds mean different works like clothes
Work, soil work, crop work etc. As long as humans recognize humans as a species
Otherwise, till then how can any good work be done with human beings. It is natural for humans to
He will do many things. Many jobs mean production work. mankind becomes one we are this
We accept that the aim of human beings is only one, that is to be happy. to be prosperous, to be satisfied,
To be fearless and continuously prove our coexistence. programs to achieve these objectives
Its basis is built on “Human race, Human religion is one”. The only way to be happy is
The name of this is Dharma (system). If we are able to prove the system by being sensible in a country's time, then it
Every country can prove this in time, this is the specialty of this proposal.

Hail, good luck.

०७०७ ० ० ०/०चचर


<newpage>

64 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Question-Answer

In this part of the book, some of the important questions arising in the minds of those curious about life science are discussed.
After selection, solutions to those questions were sought from Revered Baba Ji. Solution presented by Babaji here
are given.

Question:- Don't material things have value?

Answer:- The utility value of material goods is fixed, which was the utility value of one kilo of wheat a hundred years ago.
The value was there and remains the same even today. When we intervened, we only reduced the price (e.g.
added chemical fertilizers). Man became lazy due to use of chemical fertilizers and cow dung manure
Stopped making and killed and ate all the animals. This explains that by killing animals,
We earn money by sending. To what extent will this be true, to what extent will it be practical, to what extent will man
Will be in the sense of auspicious, who will answer? The value of material things is necessary for prosperity.
It is a function of human labor planning. Material things are used in three places: body nutrition and protection.
And for social progress. All things have to be used; without them, humans cannot get complete happiness.
Can't even.

Question:- What is human religion, what is religion?

Answer:- All human happiness is righteous, it is not clear that it is accessible to all, there are many 'opinions' about it. as much as we
I also live in the system, I can live better tomorrow than I live today, gradually and
'Religion' is to live more happily. Being happy with problems is not possible, solution is only through wisdom.
Being happy is based on being prosperous. generate solutions based on physical objects and then
It is not possible to be happy. The solution and understanding lies in our intellect through our awakening method. wisdom
On the basis of this, material things have to be produced and put to good use.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 65

It is not possible for us to be satisfied without having any material things. physical with solution
It is clear in the family that the object also remains embedded in the meaning of its prosperity. With this balanced method we
Paves the way to happiness. These needs are called religious needs. As yet
Any communal stereotype has neither become universal nor will it be so in the future. being universal would be the same thing
That human living in order, all good, happiness. Living in the human system and participating in the overall system
Being is understandable to us. No one has any problem with us. Thus we conclude
But let us come to the conclusion that human religion is happiness with complete satisfaction. As a result of living according to the law, we are constantly
Remain satisfied and remain happy continuously. If life is happy then the solution is proven in practice.
It happens. It is only because of being proven in practice that we are able to accept that man is happy.

Including human solutions in their natural form, whether black, white, strong, weak, rich or poor,
There is no doubt that everyone wants to be happy. Explained about the process of becoming happy
Till now, the idea of finding happiness in sense sensations has been talked about since ancient times but it has not been possible.
As a result, the matter of being happy on the basis of wisdom has now become clear. human self and existence
It is wise to understand this.

What is the proof that existence is an eternal truth, neither decreasing nor increasing? right now in front of us
Is is also present. The present never ends, the present remains continuous. all around this earth
Be it a state or a state. At least one state remains. material things remain constant
They never get destroyed. Physical objects are transformed into chemical objects which are called chemical
Urmi says. Two types of things come together and give up their own behavior and create a third type of behavior.
This is chemical energy. All types of living things have been created due to chemical energy.
From the chemical substance, life cell, life formula and method of creation, all three are accomplished in itself. world in this
There is no contribution of any engineer, doctor or intelligent man. This shows that there exists
The steps of development are already in place. Human beings are also a step in evolution. This is us, you understand
Comes. If man is not able to live according to his own order, according to action, according to his thoughts, then man
If this earth becomes no longer suitable for humans to live, then humans will become extinct. but the rest remained the same
Physical and chemical things will remain the same and human race will disappear. no loss benefit in existence
Doesn't happen. That is, existence neither decreases nor increases. All four states of existence remain constant


<newpage>

66 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

This existence is a spontaneous action. If all four stages do not happen on this earth, they will happen on other earth. If
If man considers making this earth unfit for human habitation as development, then it is better than this.
What could be the stone? Most of the people blame the person, country, community who create such obstacles.
Considered developed. There is an issue to think about in this also. Wherever we have reached, it has become clear that our
We are trapped by these very actions. There is a need to be free after being trapped. its proposal before you
Has arrived. This needs to be considered. Your courtesy is its basis. man
Spontaneously runs in auspicious and inauspicious tendencies. Inauspicious trend due to lack of path towards good trend
Runs towards. There is a proposal to run towards good, it needs to be examined, the path needs to be identified.
Needed.

First - Human character is the same no matter what the man is like. Nature of human character - Swadhan,
Swanari/Swanpurush, compassionate action takes place in the form of behavior.

Second – Values flow from recognition of relationships. Recognition, evaluation of relationships, values when satisfaction is achieved.
We understand that it has been fulfilled.

Third - In the third method, we become moral only when we make good use of our body, mind and wealth.
Let's do it, protect it.

In this way, moral human being, human being of values, human being of character, these three together constitute human conduct. Arrangement
These three are the basis for living. This is the formula in family, society, system, business, nature
If this conduct is interpreted and applied everywhere in the human constitution, we are under
Hui. It is only human conduct that can be glorified as national character. Religious politics in the past,
We have already thought about economic politics, that too has been defeated. your options somewhere
Will have to search. Its proposal is that the basis of national character is humane conduct.
It will happen. Man will not have any problem in understanding this in any country and era. full of humanity
The pleasure of conduct needs to be tasted once. Thus humane conduct, humane conduct
We give the interpretation of the Constitution in the form of code, we get the same in the form of sociology. Education
There is a need to bring a humanistic sociology in India. How can a human being be intelligent, a humane human being?
What a luxury. Sociology is the whole of how a human being lives in a family, society and system.
This needs to be studied separately. Man very well believing in the present


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Is able to live. Existence neither decreases nor increases, hence existence can be recognized as the ultimate truth.
Are. Existence is nature imbued with power.

The present is never going to be destroyed. We are dissatisfied with the present with our intellect because we live in the system.
If they don't get it, they go back to the past and become frustrated and suffer. go into the future frustrated
They happen, they suffer. There is no such thing as chaos in existence. Existence is the entire system.
Whenever humans make anything, it gets spoiled. Just as a machine is made, it is bound to deteriorate, a house is built
It is bound to get worse. But the object is not destroyed. That's why the dilapidated house was rebuilt. We have
It is an object for labor planning. There is inexhaustible power in life, our inexhaustible powers are nourished by the body.
We plan for protection and social progress, we call it prosperity. our need
Have to telephone once a day. The phone remains on 24 hours, this is prosperity. us during the day
Have to go somewhere once. If the bicycle is kept at home throughout the day then what can we call it if not prosperity? food one
A quintal of grain is enough to produce 20 quintals of grain; this is prosperity. These examples show
That resources are more, needs are less. We can experience prosperity in all dimensions.
To experience is a necessity. If the material world has any use then only for human prosperity.
Experience. There is only one way to experience prosperity. More than we need for the family
Get it produced. Living in harmony with prosperity ensures continuity of solutions. of wisdom
After the solution, wisdom always remains with us. There is no need to run anywhere for this.
This is the basis of sweetness. Whenever a problem comes to mind, it is not possible to make it pleasant. Thus
A system based on rationality, employment of labor and prosperity and coexistence in the sense of solution.
By living in this, one experiences fearlessness. This is how I have seen, understood, lived and want to explain to you.
I am capable.

Justice – Unbroken societies become capable of living in a universal system. become capable of being truthful
Are.

Being authentic means that we can explain what we understand to others. one for sanity
The only formula is to understand the system, to understand justice and to understand human beings. to understand this
I am one of the successful people in law. It is proved as a result of experience. What is the experience? we agree
If we don't know, we don't get satisfaction. Even if we keep going and don't believe, we still don't get satisfaction.


<newpage>

68 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

When there is satisfaction in knowing and believing, there is satisfaction in recognizing and living. yet we recognize,
We tried to make ends meet, but we did not get satisfaction because we were not able to understand anything. How to identify the satisfaction point?
Being proficient in understanding is proved by thinking through experience based method and with that
When we start walking continuously within ourselves, then in this process we reach the point of satisfaction and
If a point of satisfaction is found with authenticity, then authenticity is proof in itself. In this way the experience
Are able to communicate. As a result, the experience can be communicated and expressed in human tradition.
We find satisfaction in ourselves, this is our wealth. We are satisfied when we communicate our experience to you.
Our experience is a clear proof of what happened. It's even more celebratory if you understand and
If you don't understand then our satisfaction is still with us. We can communicate experiences daily.

According to the idealistic thinking till now, we cannot describe the experience. to recognize life
On this basis, understand that experience in life is a continuous process. human validating experience
It is possible only in tradition, which does not require any material substance, only intelligence.
Needed. The process of knowing and believing is lifelong. It is not based on sensation, hence it is not based on physical
There is no need of money when it comes to subsistence. To recognize the nature of living in the system,
We are with humans in order to survive. There is no planning of the body in experience. directly-
It is a celebration of the straight mind. The mind becomes happy with the experience and tells it to the world. so be happy
For him, the experience in the soul is the basic element. The glory of the soul is to be enchanted and celebrated.
The object remains. It remains an object of experience. As a result the mind surrenders itself to the human being. So much
It is a festival, hence it has to be offered. When we too acquire a lot of things, then it
Just offer. Similarly, experience is such a huge wealth that the mind cannot contain it.
As a result begins to express the experience.

This is what I have seen, understood and experienced. Whereas in the past the elders have been saying that the experience told
Can't go. We will have to study what is to be considered in this. by human will
Experience can be narrated. What can be published is what is accomplished. as an event
Is in front.

After experience comes presenting experiences as evidence. so far as proof
Instrumental evidence and book evidence have been presented. Such evidence has yet been found to prove the truth.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 69

No. Instrumental evidence is changeable, this is the truth. Scientists themselves say this will be the final truth
is not necessarily. So how to understand the ultimate truth, first truth, middle truth, near truth, distant truth?
Well, this has become a big dilemma. What is true is what is false. untruth means human remains in illusion
Is. There is no such thing called untruth in existence. Our ignorance, confusion can be called untruth
Are. The existence of truth is everything, truth neither decreases nor increases. first truth, last truth something like that
Doesn't happen. There is only constant truth. Or we do not understand the truth, same is the situation with humans.
Keeps maintained. Truth is understood only with wisdom. Understanding coexistence is the ultimate truth.

The result of understanding existence is that existence itself is in the system. When existence itself is of order
If it is in form then it is natural for man to be active in order to be in the form of system. then we found out
The only religion of humanity is to live within the system. The meaning of human religion is to live in the system. belief in the present
Have to do it, have to be happy. But the way to be happy which was told in Bhakti-Vikrti, becomes proof of it.
Not there. In the state of detachment, samadhi state is formed at the end of sadhana. In Samadhi we are happy that
It is not right to say that we are sad. Cannot be verified, hence it is said that happiness is beyond sorrow. you too
If you attain Samadhi state then you will also see the same. Samadhi is a thought-free state. to this
I have seen it myself. The occurrence of Samadhi is a possible event. Not a definite event. who will attain samadhi when
No one can tell this. How this will happen cannot be said with certainty because for this there are many
The methods are, sadhana method, visitor method, yoga method, meditation method, worship method, chanting method.

When we start living in the system, we participate in the system. participate in education
If we are, then through the method of continuous gratitude we are able to complete the education system. education and culture only through gratitude
The reward is meaningful, not the method. By giving education and culture through reward method, we realize the truth,
Are not able to give a sense of reality.

I impart education through this method. A mental blueprint for getting a reward (a material thing)
Didn't come at all. Physical matter is not required to explain intelligence. in education program
The teacher needs to be autonomous and self-reliant. From wisdom it comes
It is natural for a human being who remains autonomous to be self-reliant, so essential things can be manufactured.
Will do, will be capable, will definitely help. Every human being has a tendency to cooperate and be kind. survey of
Can do, this is the genesis of the utilitarian method. naturally cooperative nature of childhood


<newpage>

70 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

If we keep strengthening it, it will definitely become useful in adulthood. This is all we have to do in education
There is a need and provision to make the source meaningful, which only human education can make meaningful.
Mechanical education and vocational education will not make it worthwhile. If attention is drawn to this, it is possible
Your inclination should be towards behavior and system education, towards authentic education. basis of evidence
Man has to be. Mechanical education and vocational education will not make a human being social. From this
There may or may not be incestuous atrocities with humans, but incestuous atrocities with the earth are inevitable. mechanical
And this earth has been ruined by business education. Therefore, its alternatives include humanitarian education, behavioral education,
Solution-rich education, evidence-based education is needed. For such education, humane conduct should be kept at the center.
Go. The entire effort to make human beings wise to preserve humane conduct.
Be prepared.

We have seen that humans do impulsive and exciting actions immediately. Wherever the solution is,
Prudence is a purposeful work and then it is done after thinking about it ten times. There is no such tendency in childhood.
As one grows up after childhood, one starts doubting one's cooperative tendencies and
That tendency comes down in order of priority. As a result, there is a delay and the expedient situation
She changes. When it is changed, even more doubts arise and thus the right thing does not happen.
The man may have come and sat at this place. We have decided that we can't do anything right.
human. On the other hand, man wants order. How can the system be universally accessible and widespread?
man himselfIt is possible? This is the proposal for this. Man will have to be wise for this. 
The system is to prove humane conduct in every dimension, angle, direction and perspective.
Solution, prosperity, safety, coexistence is fruitful. For these fruits man has long suffered,
Awaited.

Now man has considered his own needs as useful and has not considered the needs of others as useful.
That's why one man against another man, one family against another family, one community against another community, one
One country exploits another country. On the basis of these testimonies it can be understood that human religion,
We need to understand and recognize humane behavior and realize it in this journey through the body.
To do this, we will have to muster dedication and courage. This is called resolution which is loyalty to be certified.
Adds up. Dedication to live within the system and to express and communicate authenticity. third


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 18

Will continue to deploy justice delivery capacity in place, will live justly, will live for justice
Its loyalty. In this way, there will be loyalty for justice, religion and truth and we have not seen loyalty happening anywhere.
Devotion in worship, recitation, meditation, all this elevates the need for which we do it. the same
He makes it bigger. Next is intense curiosity. It has been said that for Sarvamoksha also all the same
is done. This has been considered an auspicious work since time immemorial. It has been accepted in popular usage,
Respect has been given, this also gives relief to many people. Only by getting immediate relief will we
I have lived, this does not happen. It is not that I have disbelief in things like worship, recitation, meditation etc. but
It has a limit only till that point it is effective and beyond that the desire for salvation is final.
The destination is samadhi in which there is no question of gaining or losing.

In this way we came to the conclusion that no system can emerge from the method of devotion, from the method of detachment, from the method of accumulation.
Not there. So how should humans live? It is humane to live with solution, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence.
The form of art of living is formed. I have lived through this and seen that it is meaningful, you can also live through it. We
Reached the point that every person has to prove it by living it. significance is accepted by all
Everyone has a choice. So humane conduct is meaningful for mankind. every single entity in existence
She wants to live in the system, this is her religion. Human beings also want to live in the system. on this basis
Humanity is acceptable to him. Proving this is the proof of our awakening. humane conduct
When I proved it, we realized that humanity is our identity. Vaibhav and his
Happiness started flowing continuously. I understand that the entire human race is also thirsty for humanity. humanity
Man has his own self and will not be able to run away from it, otherwise today or tomorrow he will have to come to that place.

For human tradition, every human being has so much wealth and potential. proof every
Is based on man's desire, need and celebration. If only one person had this quality then the system
If it keeps going on like a mechanism between one person and another, then there is no need to wish to be happy in everything.
Made.

Someone or the other is occupying the throne and he also did not get happiness, independence and freedom. staring at the throne
Even those who saw it did not get the happiness of Swarajya. This method shows that till now we all
Have empty hands. To bridge this void, every human being must develop consciousness and live with humanity.
There is option. Human education is the only option for human awakening. We have tried this,


<newpage>

72 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Done for prosperity. Didn't do it to do anyone a favor, not to impose a favor. We
Consciously i.e. on the basis of understanding of experience (Experience is authenticity - Sense of authenticity is intelligence
Occurs in) Intelligence is activated. Its name is Sankalp. We express on the basis of resolution,
There is a desire to communicate. There is a tendency to authenticate. We proved it to everyone
It is necessary for. Knowing this, he started presenting the further programme.

The first attempt was the Jeevan Vidya Yojana, in which the activities of life were explained starting from contemplation to resolution.
Did. The one who has a resolution; According to him, depiction comes naturally to the art of living.
Before now, depiction has been done to live on the basis of sensations. Now authenticity in its place
An illustration for the art of living begins. Its form is Upkar Vidhi. favor method
When we depict our common aspirations and ambitions, this is what emerges:
It means that we ourselves autonomously prove our solution and prosperity, only then we are worthy of gratitude.
We are unable to hide such abilities anywhere. He is naturally disposed to favor
it occurs. Due to this method of favor, our general aspirations and ambitions get limited. in this thread
Recirculating economics is self-contained and expedient. Man can understand him, after awakening
It is understandable. In this way, with the revolving economy (money - body, mind, wealth) we can attain righteousness.
(Behavior, production, system) are employed in (ethics). They are employed in education. This
There are always opportunities for man to be employed everywhere and those opportunities are always employed.
The method of doing it comes naturally.

In the modern tradition, after reading and writing, man gradually starts turning away from production and more.
There is a thirst for more convenience and storage. Whereas humane method in an awakened system
Our general aspirations and ambitions become limited and our needs are met with limited resources.
Are completed.

The price of a commodity remains the same continuously, like whatever value (utility value) is there in one kilo of sesame seeds.
Always remains. Similarly, their value remains the same in medicines, paddy, wheat and vegetables. Him
Called utility value. After that, there is aesthetic value in whatever humans produce, such as making cars.
Yes, we make railways and art adds beauty to it. Beauty in the sense of convenience along with utility.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 73

If it connects, it has significance. In this manner our form of analysis is formed. We become useful,
They become meaningful and even beautiful.

On the issues of values, life values are known as happiness, peace, satisfaction, joy. the harmony of life
Is the name of. When there is music in the mind and attitude, there is happiness, when there is music in the attitude and mind, there is satisfaction, there is happiness in the mind and
When there is music in the intellect, it is called peace and when there is music in the intellect and soul, it is called bliss. this total
Overall life is music. When we live based on experience, the music of life is simple and natural.
Is. There is a natural expectation of life, there is natural achievement and meaning in life. When the pleasure of values is in taste
It seems that among those values, love for humans, trust, affection, gratitude, affection... all these are named.
When we recognize the connection with meaning, such values automatically start emerging from our lives.
An example of this is that when a mother recognizes her child, her love automatically starts surging. Its
There is no need for any five-year plan. No need to find or collect value
Is. The values that are embedded in life will be determined by recognizing the relationships. identification of relationships meaning of family
It is in the sense of society, it is in the sense of system and it is in the sense of coexistence, it is related in all four ways.
The peg has already been built.

We need to be proficient. The more proficient we become, the more vast we can see ourselves.
Are capable of presenting evidence and presenting significance. To appreciate the values in this way
Looks like. Life always evaluates the values it produces. Commodity prices are spread all over the place while
Life values, human values, established values are within us (in life) and we evaluate them from life itself.
How easy it is to do, how glorious it is. For this, there is a need to set up a plant from outside.
Not there. It is a matter of testing oneself, with oneself, for oneself. Everyone needs this. his
To make the possibility accessible to all, it is a matter of law, of rules, control, balance, justice.
Education and cultural work is done. When it is duly edited life becomes awakened
As a result one becomes capable of recognizing relationships. Recognizes relationships in terms of purposes
As a result the man becomes happy. By this method we reached Aswadana.

Then comes comparison. The method of comparison between dear, interest and profit is done by living beings and animals. The method of comparison between human beings is justice,
Religion, truth. These are the polar points, there is a need to grasp them and accept them. As soon as we accept it
So our efforts are in this direction. Till now, education, values, evaluation, whatever human beings have done, sensitivities


<newpage>

74 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

It was done on the basis of and it was not completed, hence the tradition was not formed. Therefore, out of balance, love, interest, benefit
There is a need to merge in justice, religion, truth.

That is, just love, just interest and just prosperity. From a justice point of view, profit would have been replaced by prosperity.
Is. By judicious production we reach the destination of prosperity and by collection method we reach the destination of exploitation.
But we reach. By exploitation we ourselves are harmed and the world is also harmed. This
There is a need to study accurately, there is a need to accept and determination on this
needs to be installed. Therefore there is a need for humanitarian education. so that every child
Will be autonomous and will be full of six virtues: -

4. Self-confidence 2. Respect for excellence
3. Balance in talent 4. Balance in personality
5. Social in behavior. 6. Self-reliant in business

Such an autonomous human being will automatically prove solution and prosperity in the family as a result of social formula.
And the system formula is accomplished by itself. Family is the origin of system and society. to this
I have seen that it makes good sense. After this comes the form of the system. of wisdom
After that, the system emerges and flows on its own.

Every parent teaches their children, after that they teach in educational institutions and then on the throne,
Dharmagaddi teaches in his own way. Whatever education we get from this education has not made us human. Now
There is only this much thought, this much effort, this much proof so that we can become human. become human tradition
Can. This will benefit the balance of nature and justice will be established in humans. justly
One has to live within the system. What huge and insurmountable task is this? But humans feel the need for it
needs to happen. Whatever has been done till now has been done on the basis of feelings. which we need
It is not going to be completed, this is why the earth is ruined, man is already ruined. So if you want to settle down then
Humanity has to be recognized. We will have to live in a humane system and ensure its continuity.
There is a possibility. At present the issue is that crime should be stopped naturally. The nature of the system is: -

, Participation in education culture

2. Participation in justice protection


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 75

3. Participation in production work
4. Participation in exchange fund
5. Participation in health moderation

Participation in these five dimensions is participation in the system. After this awakening, every man will have such a system.
It originates from, is evident in every man. In this way the presentation of the system is complete in brief.
Hui. Every intelligent person can accept this.

Research until any issue is understood is called research. research or object of research when we
If you certify, then you already know how to spread it to the people through education and culture method.
Popularization is the first issue. The teachers who are diligent while doing popularization are
Will be proficient in method, rational in practical method, rational in scientific method. meaning of being proficient
Are from concept. After conception, every man has his own tendencies, his own efforts, his own needs.
Being authentic means being authentic. The need to be authentic is inherent in every person. when you get this
You will feel that it is absolutely necessary to get certified, so why will you remain silent, you too will definitely get certified.
First we have found through research method, what we will get from me will be diligent method. after study
Self-responsibility begins after realization. After understanding, one has to prove it. Any 
When used to prove a concept after understanding it and to communicate it to the world
When we run we feel it. Only after that others become aware. With this method every person
Will enlighten others only through experience. Just speaking will not bring understanding. some things we hear
As a result, we become aware and get involved in research. Same thing happened in my method also. but
Most people will study, experience, and certify. That's how I understand.

Question: - Your view regarding the traditions that are already prevalent and the man trapped in them?
What is?

Answer:- Look, you have used two words. 4. Tradition 2. What I understood as tradition by the common man
I present it in four parts.


<newpage>

76 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

, Education 2. Religious throne 3. Royal throne 4. Business throne. These are the leaders of tradition. There are boats. in this
Every person travels in different ways. From what I have seen, traditions have completely eroded. so
It cannot give anything to the passengers traveling in it. But these four traditions are so arrogant that we
Everything has been started and implemented only to save you. But not even a single person was seen floating.
Rather, the one who is going to save also appears to be immersed in it. On this basis I said that traditions are all
They have become rotten and useless. Man is the source of meaning. I have studied every man less
Only more than 5% is meaningful. Man can improve. Instead of improving tradition, another tradition
Will be established only. Tradition is not going to improve, there is nothing in it to improve.

Be it meaningful education, be it meaningless education, be it a meaningful state or be it a meaningless state; tradition of education, tradition of the state
It will definitely remain. For example, at present the basic element of the state is governance, the basis of which is the Constitution; whose origin is
Power centered governance. Which means stop the mistake from the mistake, stop the war from the war, stop the crime from
Stop from crime. What will happen to man in this, what will be improved by stopping him. The more you try to stop, the more
The crime war has increased and it is visible to everyone. The addiction of business cannot be cured by exploitation. of religion
Addiction is to give assurance to everyone and get respect. Why should I assure you that I will save the sinner and the altruist to the selfish?
Will make the ignorant wise. No evidence was found that these assurances were fulfilled. mankind today
Till then I kept thinking that I am wrong and traditions are right. From here I want to open man's eyes to traditions
No eyes. I don't deal with tradition, I am a man, I belong to men.

Question: On one hand you call the traditions rotten whereas man came mature in the same traditions.
If so, then the man must also be rotten because of growing up in that tradition. even then you say that
Man is more meaningful than 5%. What does it mean for you to be meaningful?

Answer:- Just talked about four traditions, the people sitting there do not have the curiosity for improvement. Gaddi followers
There is no basis for curiosity in the documents of Ko and Gaddi. On this basis he is rotten. while every
Curiosity always arises in some corner of man, on this basis I say that man is more than 5%
More is better.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Question:- Have you talked about development? Till now we have got roads built in the village, electricity installed,
Increase in income is called development. What does development mean to you?

Answer:- Consciousness development is the development in human being but till now development has become roads and buildings.
They have been calling it 'Jana' and moreover, building a jail in every tehsil is also being called development. shined
Building a house is called development. We don't have much opposition to this because man's normal
These are included in the sequence of the means required for aspiration and great aspiration. but use it
In order to do this, social consciousness is required. In mechanical consciousness we make a mistake somewhere and
Will go into crime. Human beings somewhere have social consciousness, practical consciousness, system consciousness.
There is a need for this, this point of life knowledge has been put forward only in order to develop conscious and intuitive understanding. Its
After that, humanization of education is a proposal and after that, family based self-rule system is a proposal.
If we take a look at the basis of these three proposals, we will injure the earth as little as we can.
We are durable for a long time. Where will man remain after destroying the earth? That's why humans evolved
Its basis is that every human being can prove peace and prosperity in the family.
Can understand, behave and evaluate the same caste i.e. be social. Arrangement
Means to be able to participate in all five dimensions. This is what we call human development or awakening.
It is called practical in social system. Till now we have not found happiness in the sense of development.
For continuous happiness, all four – solution, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence – must be complete. there will be happiness without it
No.

Question:- Darwin also gave the theory of evolution which is valid even today. principles of your development
And what is the difference between Darwin's evolution?

Answer:- Whatever Darwin presented, he presented evolution on the basis of anatomy. like an insect
The creation of a snake, the creation of a leech, the creation of a horse, the creation of a cow, similarly the creation of man. based in
To the bones. He described how the bones became longer and wider as development. man
Considered the body as pole. Human anatomy was based on the anatomy behind it.
After adding this, this is formed, after this this is formed, so they say. darwin's anatomy
There is some difficulty in saying what has to be said in the literal sense, but it is a complete problem to say it in the human sense. darwin


<newpage>

78 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

According to this, the human body was formed through the gradual transformation of the monkey and in between many living beings also came into existence.
were made which were later destroyed. Whereas according to us, the uterus of one or the other rich medhas-rich creature
In 1930, the aim of research into Prana Sutra was to establish a tradition of anatomy through which
So that life can prove its awakening. Whereas according to Darwin, nature and environment
These uncertain body structures occurred under pressure. Darwin had no knowledge of life. considering life as a pole
He didn't say anything. Man exists only in the combined form of life and body. still to develop
If we search, we search in the body, in the bones and for that there are Nobel Prizes, degrees, jobs.
The pole of their development is the human body. So prepare your body according to them and become a human being.
That didn't happen. It is not explained within the scope of the bones of the human body. Darwin testifies to this
He himself has written that I myself am not explained within the scope of the bones of the body. that human
Was unable to explain. In composition method you call excellence as development. While the development
The pole is the point, that is life. Without life the body cannot do any work. keep the body alive
Life itself is the one to keep. Not only on the basis of life, not only on the basis of body, “human” life
And is at the joint base of the body.

The development that exists in atoms is in the sense of completeness. Every root atom is constitutive. in every formation
There is more than one part. In every atom there is a center and parts revolving around it.
Needed. This is found to occur naturally in existence. Such atoms have at least
There are many parts ranging from two to many. There are many species of atoms, one of them is of
Atoms are life atoms. The increase and decrease of particles does not happen in the life atom, hence the renewable energy.
Renewable force becomes available, this is called evolution in the atom. Therefore life is called atom evolved
And after development, there is awakening. The proof of awakening is knowing, believing, recognizing and living.
It exists in atomic parts. One atomic fragment recognizes another atomic fragment and hence within a certain distance
By remaining there the system has been equated. Working as a system. this physical chemical
counts as activity. The culmination of chemical activity is the creation of humans on this earth
is certified as the body of. Accepted the body as life.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 79

Question:- You met Chief Justice of India Venkat Chalaiyya in Delhi and talked about universal justice.
Asked him for which he did not have the answer. Justice is different in India, justice is different in Pakistan.
In India itself, there is separate justice for Hindus and separate justice for Muslims, thus there is a lot of discussion about justice.
There is confusion. You said that justice is proved in the family whereas we think that justice is proved in the court.
Do it.

Answer:- It is said in formula form, “Relation, Value, Evaluation, Ambivalence”, this is justice. evaluation of relationship
It is very important to have ambivalence. There is always a relation between the material and the conscious being with the human being. whether you
Deny it or accept it. Like the relationship with air. No relationship with nature, no relationship with humans
Well, you can't make something like this. All this is found only in the human family. While the decision in the court

It happens, but not justice.

Question: Your entire presentation is based on coexistence. You said nature is in power. like this
Coexistence is everything. You say that even where there are no units, there is power and where there are units, there is power.
It is full, there is power, explain it.

Answer:- We understand the broader object quickly. Call it empty space, call it power, call it God,
God says. What are these things? This is the basic thing, energy. It is an object in which whatever units are
Worth getting inspired. How does it feel to be motivated? What pushes from above? Earlier it was also said that
One started, then with his push all started one by one. someone who pushes into power
There is no quality. There is no wave, no motion, no pressure in it, hence there is no question of pushing. every thing
This is definitely proof that he is energetic and motivated. It is present everywhere. Every unit is also immersed in the wider
Are there, are also surrounded. Being separate from each other only means that there is power between them. If there is no power in between
Can't be different It also connects because there is power in between. This type of composition
It has become the basis and the object itself is full of energy because it is active.

This object was studied again in a different way. Firstly, objects appear in the form of units, their
It was thought that whether its volume is the same or different, it is visible in volume and mass. Comprehensive
The object has no volume and no limit.


<newpage>

80 Life Sciences: An Introduction

According to materialism, where units exist, there is no comprehensive entity, that is, units are comprehensive objects.
Removes. Hence, units are considered stronger (heavier) than larger objects. Whereas in reality I saw everything
Objects are in zero gravity. Earth, sun, solar system, galaxies are all in zero gravity. zero gravity
Is in the situation - This makes it clear that there is no weight in the mutuality of entity and entity. while units
The weight is evident only in the mutuality of things. Like the weight due to the tendency of two atoms to form molecules due to interaction
It becomes clear. In this way, it has become clear that the weight of more than one molecule is fixed by nature. in units
In order to clarify the weight of each other, we call it the force of attraction; reality
In this it means a partner in the development process or participation in the overall system. like a stone from the earth
After being released from some distance into the atmosphere, it comes to earth only because of the development-oriented tendency inherent in that stone.
It is on basis only. While publishing this tendency, it has been named force of attraction. these two proofs
From this we understand that everything is active. The evidence that power is transcendent is that every unit is active.
It is there, it is controlled, it is full of strength. control, functionality and wherever the entity is located in existence
The fact that the power remains the same is also a proof of the transcendence of power.

Question: You said that there are infinite units immersed, surrounded and drenched in power. So they also have infinite angles in reciprocity
Please clarify that it is published from.

Answer: There is a sutra written in it, each one is complete with infinite angles in itself. infinite angle rough
It moves in a straight line and that object remains reflected in that straight line. who is somewhere
Neither goes anywhere nor rests on anything. He will keep going until he sees an object in front of him. So
The object remains reflected where the object is found. The fact that the object is illuminated in this manner
There is proof. The object is illuminated and this proves that every object contains light. in the manner
It is evident that each one contains infinite angles, it is in the sense of luminosity. your reflection
As a result of being above me, we understand your luminosity.

Question: Today the world is running towards earning profit in business, employment and even in education.
Which you have called profit mania. The social, economic and natural problems that arose in the world due to this
Where can we find their solution? If the world wants to give up the pursuit of profit, then its option is
What will happen?


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 84

Answer:- If something fails then efforts can be made for success. aimlessness, directionlessness
The human being who is stuck in a state of helplessness is certainly deprived of direction and goal and his
Because there is no certainty even in its plans and programmes. Only then could certainty about the program be established.
When the goal is stable, the direction is certain. In its elemental form rational science, scientific discretion
We get the coordination of both in the form of music, in the form of movement. This is the main thing.
Now, if we go in search of the goal of a profit-oriented economy, then the goal will only be accumulation, convenience, enjoyment,
It is overindulgence which is never destined to happen. There is no satisfaction point for collection facility.
The 700 crore human beings living on this earth or any single human being should have the satisfaction point of collection facility.
We have not been able to get it, nor can we get it, nor can we prove it. This is directionlessness and aimlessness.
Is the testimony of.

If the goal and direction are definite then our program is also definite. so called profit mania
That there will never be any satisfaction in it, but it will have to remain engaged with it forever and ever.
Told the name Mania. I have seen the form of Hi-Hi, you may also be able to see it. expansion of hi-hi
It keeps increasing, not decreasing. So what goal will we achieve by increasing the expansion of Hi-Hi?
Where will we reach and find satisfaction? After that, even if we get the facility of collection, its planning, enjoyment, multiple enjoyment,
This happens only within the limits of excessive indulgence and it has no reachable destination. Satisfied with enjoyment till today
No one got it. From these two testimonies we have concluded that if this is not madness then what else is it?
Is. 700 crore people will go crazy due to this kind of madness, who will save them from it? this question
In order to overcome this, every human being searches for all the good, happiness, determination, continuity.
want. All this together is the object of research. The economy is also a factor in its favor. Body,
Mind means wealth. There will be body, there will be mind, there will also be money, any one of these three will be different.
There is no economics by doing. Whereas according to the economics taught so far, money has been described as money.
Two types of currency were mentioned (1) Metal currency (2) Letter currency. Patra Mudra is printed in a printing press. Now
The technology of printing has become widespread due to which fake notes are printed. so current
Arthashastra, which is most famous, is the science of paper currency and metal currency. metallic currency, letter currency
When we do not get the desired thing from whatever we have, then neither our thirst nor our stomach is quenched by that money.
Fills. Therefore what should this be considered? Getting the symbol of the thing does not result in getting the thing. This
In a way, we have considered the acquisition of money as the acquisition of goods, this is called madness. its resolution


<newpage>

82 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

What I have presented for is the meaning of body, mind and wealth. Here wealth means general aspiration and
It is about things related to ambition. In which food, shelter, adornment, television, distance travel, tele-listening are related.
Are essential items. In this way our essential commodities will be useful and not stored.
For example, if we produce grains and keep them for one year, two years, four years, then if kept later, they will rot. the same
If any instrument is not used, it will automatically rust and get destroyed. like this
Whatever instruments we prepare, they are meant for use and cannot be stored.
Even if collection can be done up to a limit.

The more we go on collecting, the more painful it becomes. hence their usefulness
Becomes inevitable. Apart from utility, all the things are used for good utility and purposefulness.
can be employed. One very important thing that I have seen in the production of any item is
It is important to have time for the mind, after the mind it is important to have the body. All due to the combination of mind and body
Goods are produced. In this way we can perhaps clearly accept a concept
That object means money and they mean objects of general aspiration and ambition. This
What will be the benefit from the decision? Mankind's mind starts turning towards production. As yet
By trumpeting economics, we render the productive nature of mankind (educated) meaningless or completely
Are being eradicated. They remain ruined. After that let's talk about some other specialization
In that the production process gets wasted even more. After being ruined he was considered a good man
goes. After becoming such a good man, he wants everything without producing, most of all
They are the ones who want it. The tendency not to produce in this manner and to obtain more and more of all goods.
The desire of these two together leads to betrayal, rebellion and exploitation of the world. in the manner
The man is trapped. Need freedom from this. I have attained liberation, we do not need to exploit anyone.
There is no need for treason, rebellion. With hard work we produce more than we need.
Are. You can do it too. Need is determined only in the family, neither in the individual nor in the world.
Is. If we produce more than our family needs, we experience prosperity. in this manner
Since then, the need for the study of revolving economy was felt. definitely his
Composed and given to the world in Hindi language. It will be beneficial if that world becomes accessible. From this
There is never going to be any harm to any person, any family anywhere in the world. if it happens
It will be a blessing. So we also have to be free from the exploitation method. To be free from treason and rebellion. the politics that


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 83

We have adopted diplomacy from our heart and there will be no fear, peace and tranquility anywhere. Peace
Peace requires a sustainable economy. Just as we base our wealth in the form of body, mind and wealth on natural opulence.
If we plan, then the things produced through planning are nourishment for our body, protection and basis of social progress.
Is made. Again, on the basis of movement, nutrition and protection in our society, we are again able to create things.
are qualified, thus it is periodic.

Man utilizes his powers through thought along with his body to work on natural opulence.
As a result an object is created. We can produce more things than we need.
Yes, the question of getting free from woes comes here. We already want to be satisfied, want to be happy
So we search for a solution for satisfaction, while searching for a solution, we come across a solution for satisfaction and then we adopt it.
Are. There is nothing to be left out in this. It's a matter of turning wrong into right, crime into justice.
It is a matter of change, it is a matter of changing war into coexistence, it is a matter of changing betrayal into courtesy,
When it comes to converting rebellion into friendship, we accept all this. ask 700 crore people
Consider treason, rebellion, exploitation, whether one should wage war or not. Everyone will say it should not be done. According to me
No man is ready to keep wailing for this. This recurring meaning sequence
That the human race can be free from woes, treason, rebellion, exploitation, war, like going crazy, becoming healthy
Desires, similarly man also aspires for a sustainable economy in a profit-driven economy.
It is already absorbed, it is a matter of awakening the absorbed thing.

Good wishes are inherent in every human being, it is a matter of awakening them. rotating in wake up order
Economy is an indivisible form, its basic principle is labor planning and labor exchange principle. This 
Our great ambition is to create things related to common aspiration. circular economy
Being is present, nature is natural, destiny is natural, coexistence is natural. Therefore we need to study it thoroughly
should do. One should achieve success in life and become a source of satisfaction by being self-satisfied.

Question: Seeing the discrepancy and misery between man and man, Karl Marx developed dialectical materialism.
Gave the concept. Which was named communism. It showed a dream that economic relations between man and man
Due to the inequalities, its retirement was accomplished by the advent of a political system through communism.
Will be possible. In the last 70 years, 2/3 of the world accepted communism and deep experiments were conducted on it.


<newpage>

84 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Because of him, crores of people have endured many tortures under the hope of descending to heaven.
We endured it, but now we have seen that communism has spread all over the world, at least in experimental form.
Failed miserably. We have proved it to the world that the conflict is
It cannot be the basis for a man to be happy in life.

From you we have heard practical democracy; Through this you will be able to stand among human beings.
You have repeatedly said that the problems and inconsistencies can be resolved and solutions can be reached.
Tried to say. Explain its nature clearly.

Answer:- Dialectical materialism hypothesizes that whatever work is going on is going on with a tug of war.
Is. In practical terms it can be seen like this; Your strength is used with me, my strength
Is used with you, hence it was thought that both work. development of both
It was thought that one happens or one gets destroyed and the other develops. on this basis
Only that which is strong is worth living. Dialectical materialism is not a force-free object.
It is considered according to. I have seen that there is no conflict in existence, one is dependent on the other.
I have seen the situation of, even an atomic part is full of force, atom is also full of force, molecule, molecule
All bodies are full of force. These interact with each other to accomplish the complementarity method.
Are worthy, resulting in development. This dialectical materialism cannot be written without understanding existence.
Can. Due to lack of proper use of intelligence, we think all these things, we will remain everything else.
Will disappear, our religion will remain and all other religions will be destroyed. We will live on Earth and rule the rest.
Will be destroyed. Such noise, riots and slogans that are heard every day are the stories of Sheikh Chilli.
We have not achieved any definite direction or goal through these, nor will we achieve them. Definite only when the direction and goal are clear
I have seen this when it comes to the programme. This is what I study, those who want to study
Make him study accurately. This is our daily work, with this we do not owe you anything big.
It is not that we are doing a favor, this is our work, just as the wind does its work, water does its work.
It works, that's my work, I do my work. I have strong faith yet we
All the days and moments, as much work as I could, I have done with this concept and this purpose. In this
I found solutions easily at every turn, issue, work behavior, our production exchange, everywhere.
Yes, I am happy with this, our family is happy. It seems to me that every family wants to be happy, every


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 85

Man wants to be happy and wise, no man wants to be foolish. That's why even a fool is a fool
If you tell him, he will abuse you and say that you are a fool. That's why what is rejected is not accepted by anyone.
Would have happened. I don't accept foolishness, bickering, treason, rebellion and fighting. materialists say treason
Nothing can happen without rebellion.

Instead, in the perspective of solution materialism, whatever exists is endowed with force. Force
There is a use of prosperity, there is good use, there is purposefulness, this is the natural thing that happens in an awakened life.
There is fragrance. If rationality is possible according to science, this is the main issue. Prudence means purpose, so
The purpose should be in accordance with science and the purpose should be in accordance with science. Scientific wisdom means
Which becomes capable of being analyzed for human purposes. If we cannot analyze the purpose then
Till now our argument is incomplete. So far the scientific rule says that we can give rational materialism
So the first argument that comes is what am I? Who am I? Why am I? And our peace, unrest, happiness, sorrow
How are they manufactured? Why do we suffer from this? Why are there happiness? The answer comes from science
Not there. So we cannot find truth by starting something with a lie. The solution is destiny in existence
Yes, it is a routine. Routine means movements towards solution. to explain this
Tried in solution materialism.

On this basis, there is talk of practical democracy. Man wants to be happy and the solution is happiness,
Problem - Sorrow A solution is definitely needed, what will the solution be like? It will happen through behavior. How it will happen? relationship,
Will be resolved through value assessment and ambivalence. Even if we don't recognize the relationships, the problem still exists.
We suffer from this problem, do not live up to the values and do not conform to the relationships, yet we still suffer from the problem.
There is a solution when all four of these (relationship, value, evaluation, satisfaction) are present. In this manner these four are related to each other
When joined, there is one solution for four problems. Man is loaded with problems. full of problems
Looks like the man has no clue. These political, cultural and economic problems are testimony to this.
The man has been covered without end. Every person of every generation is groaning under the burden of problems.
It ends. Instead, behavioral democracy is a view that man can be satisfied through behavior.
It happens. We behave in two situations only: a natural relationship and a human relationship. natural
No matter how we behave in relationships, in terms of rules, control, balance, we will find solutions.
Otherwise, you will definitely suffer from the problem, as you are suffering from it now. we do anything without thinking


<newpage>

86 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

We have done technological work, tore the belly of the earth, and are suffering as a result. Due to these problems human
This question mark has already become whether he will remain on this earth or not? According to me, every human being, every situation,
This can be resolved in every movement, this is the point of propounding in practical democracy. the gist of it
This is relationship, value, evaluation, mutual satisfaction. Due to this we get an all-round solution. Economic
The solution is found by the iterative method. Cultural method meets human consciousness psychology.
Man is a unit of knowledge, he is able to prove himself only through cognitive ability. to have a relationship
To have faith in the present. To live within the system and to prove coexistence. practical in this manner
Democracy is propounded in the sense of all-round solution.

Question:- Freud presented a formulation in which he combined all the desires of man at one point.
Focused, that is “sex”. Today in the world this ideology has been adopted by many people as undeclared or
declaredly accepted but we see that from him in the whole world there is a
Clear and satisfactory thinking and results were not achieved. You talked about human conscious psychology
Is it somewhere? How will this psychology replace Freud's psychology? How from this concept
Man will achieve happiness and peace and the entire human race will be able to achieve the right direction.

Answer:- Every human being is a combined form of life and body, this has been made clear. life at its core
The formation is completely atomic. The atom itself gets infected and becomes conscious nature (life). then nature takes its course
Becomes glorious in the form of consciousness. The conformational atom remains free from binding and molecular bonding. This only
Its grandeur. Due to this coexistence method, the body full of medhas becomes capable of running. These
Both are methods that come in a regular manner, that is, existence in a definite form is a natural achievement. in humans
And in other living beings, life and body exist in a combined form. took a good look at it
Has gone. This can be studied. The focus of the study is to survive and not survive.
It is clear to be, to be full of life, and to be without life. The key to living a fulfilling life in this
The proof is that one can understand through the use of senses. Life cannot be manifested through the body i.e.
When the functioning of sense organs is no longer possible then it is said that it is dead. dying means giving life to the body
Remains abandoned. Declaring that one is dead from the moment life is separated from the body
Are. We do not call such a body a human being. "We call ourselves human only when we are able to sustain life and body."


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Are. Every human being is a thinking unit. There is no place for thinking in living beings. idea of living beings
Same as heredity. Even if man wants to live according to hereditary method, imagination and freedom of action
It remains far and wide beyond that. When within the limits of heredity i.e. body, if our
In such a situation where thoughts are not limited, we spread far and wide. Due to this our (life)
It is not possible to remain limited by the limits of the body. Due to this, by thinking to the limit of our body, we are not satisfied.
Not done, not resolved. This is testimony to the fact that we have neither been able to become social nor a united society.
Made. Could not find universal system. The dog's law is universal, the horse's law is universal, every
The system of the living being is universal, what unfortunate man is he if his system does not become universal?

Thoughtfulness is our quality, we cannot remain silent. It is not our right to silence thoughts
Is. In existence, donkey, horse, dog, grass, stone, iron, precious stones all have their use or each other.
is the complement of. So how can it be possible that he is not complemented by being a human being? To be silent means to be against nature.
Being anti-destiny, anti-development and anti-awakening. In this way, be opposed to all four methods
And opposition will create problems. This is what happened.

All the people in our country tried for Samadhi. In all these experiments, when giving testimony of Samadhi
When it came to the matter, some people even gave evidence in a roundabout way. But I have attained samadhi, samadhi
This is the function of I am the proof of this, it is not right to say so. Now after that the incarnate man came.
In Avatar, an attempt has been made to present all the documents of man and his final imagination.
It was done only for good but all the good did not happen. Shubh means solution, prosperity, fearlessness
Not proved by coexistence. Unbroken society, universal system is not proved, every human being
Not every human being is capable of verifying that he has become intelligent. Happiness and peace to all,
Satisfaction not achieved. Keeping these things in mind, we are talking about failure. opposite of this
What materialism said about collection facilities did not work and it also came to the verge of failure.
The matter of success comes only from human consciousness. Where does human consciousness reside? in life
If it remains in the body, then the person named Freud whom you said has dealings with life.
Not only.

If suffering from lust is the truth that life demands, then it is already true for dogs, cats etc.
It has happened in living beings, then what was the need for human existence in the destiny sequence? If asked like this, then the human


<newpage>

88 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

There is no goal of being, this is the logic that comes out and what is the difference in that? man's goal is happiness
Has to happen. To be happy, you need a solution. Without a solution not a single man will certify
To prosperity. It will not be possible for us to become prosperous by abandoning the solution. So think about it
What we need to do after thinking is what we understood, the completeness of human consciousness, cognizance.
And is explained in sensitivity. There are two things in cognitive (4) knowing (2) believing and
Sensitivity requires two things: (4) to recognize and (2) to perform. No amount of sensitivity
There is activation, it happens through the senses based method. So whatever decision we make on the basis of sense sensations
If we do, it will be timely only. There will be no continuity in that. If you like food, keep eating it.
If you like sleeping then keep sleeping, this will not happen. That is to say, there is no sense in the business.
It is not an activity which we can carry out in the same way continuously; frequent changes are necessary in it. Change
Without this no man can continuously engage in any sensual activity. Why has this problem arisen?
If asked, for humans to have a tendency towards cognizance. That's why the arrangement is so auspicious that
The fragility of sensitivity is the bell for human awakening, the inspiration for human awakening, human
There is direction for awakening. For me, for you. When will it originate? When will you verify it?
Only you will think. It is your responsibility, everything has come for me. We are thrilled that all this has arrived.
It is natural to happen. This is such a systematic thing in itself. By being a little considerate, man this
We can only think about it and based on that, whatever experiment we conducted made it clear that
Sensitivity is fragile and we seek constant pleasure. We find happiness in the combination of sensations.
It is felt but happiness is not felt. Our thirst is for happiness which does not exist without experience.
The experience is continuous. Experience is never fragile. For the continuation of happiness on this basis
This was necessary. Fragility in feelings is natural, this is the system. On this basis we evaluate it
Could do it. After that the meaning of cognizance became clear; All activities of life are experience based
To be inspired by law. This is human consciousness, this is awakened consciousness. which I experienced myself
Did. Let me make you study. This will come only through study based method. Read this again and again-
Reading can be helpful for comprehension.

Life was understood and became the basis of human consciousness. humane behavior understood
So it became a tradition. For the sake of tradition, without understanding human behavior and humane conduct.
Human tradition is not going to happen. Human behavior is the only thing which remains the same in all times and places.


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 89

It is only there. The combined form of values, character and morality is conduct. Character described as Swadhan, Swanari/Swapurush
And compassionate work behavior. It is morality to properly utilize and protect body, mind and money. evaluation in relationships
Doing something and getting satisfaction as a result is the value. Life goal is to be happy, human goal is to find solution,
Prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence. For the goal we connect morality everywhere, morality in the same sense
It is meaningful in this sense, it is in this sense that we can get sponsored. The value method is also similar and the character method is the same.
They are saddened by corruption, saddened by immorality, saddened by disrespect of values. like this
Adhering to values, morality and character is human conduct and nature. for such conduct
Did you need something? That is the need for knowledge of existence, life and humane conduct.

What is knowledge? Knowing and believing is knowledge. It becomes possible to find the point of satisfaction only after knowing and accepting.
Is. When you don't know and don't believe, then why will you search for the point of satisfaction? Where to search? like we go to delhi
If we know and agree then we plan to go to Delhi. If we knew Delhi and did not accept it then
How will you plan to go? Accepted the existence of the moon and also reached the moon. to know and
Do a lot to reach the satisfaction point of believing. So the main thing to do is to understand existence.
Coming into this, coexistence is understood; Humanity becomes complete as a result of understanding coexistence
Conduct comes and is accomplished. All this is confirmed in human conscious psychology. One thing
And in my life I have seen .22 activities. How much of these 22 activities is in your mind?
The activity is to clarify how much is in the instinct, how much is in the intellect and how much is in the soul.
have tried. What is the purpose of this? This is the purpose of what was heard one after the other and
If understood then it becomes necessary to experience it for the sake of satisfaction, the qualification to make others aware of it.
She comes. It is only after realizing others that there is proof of our wealth. If we explain to others then our
There is evidence of intelligence. If we are healthy then our wealth is proved in making others healthy. We
If we are rich then we can make others rich and that is the proof of our being rich. In this way, social
There comes a way of being. Till now man has been living only in sensitivity, hence collection, convenience, betrayal-
There has been talk of rebellion and exploitation. In this way the basic form of human conscious psychology becomes clear.
It is basically: It is the process of life itself, if we believe in order to know then we proceed on the basis of knowing.
And in the process of recognizing and living, we become self-judgmental, controlled,
Become balanced, become happy. This is overall the purpose of human conscious psychology.


<newpage>

90 Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction

Question: Baba Ji, there are thousands of medical systems on earth today, so much human effort has been put into them.
Despite the wealth being deployed, the health of mankind is still deteriorating. the amount of money invested
Despite all the research being done on the devices, the number of diseases is increasing.
New diseases are emerging. Even the old method does not achieve what is claimed
And what is said is not proved even by modern methods. In this regard you life
How would you like to recognize health on the basis of health and restraint through knowledge?

Answer:- Whatever you said, this question is more or less for everyone. So much for the effort and expertise. Whereas
Expertise is a ghost, like a vampire. He kills everyone. We are experts so whatever we say
Most of the crimes are committed on the basis of assuming that something is true. It is theirs who commit the most crimes
What happened above was the patient. When the patient starts narrating his problems, the doctors do not want to listen, they
We want to listen to the patient through the machine, the machine cannot recognize the pain of a human being. overall
Only humans can hear and recognize the pain of humans, this cannot be done by machines and we can cure the disease.
Can't recognize. Earlier, some people who had knowledge of Nadi through Ayurveda method, Unani method and other methods,
The effort made to identify the problems based on this is commendable. They are through the nadis, the movement of the nadis
Those who try to recognize the disease by, by pressure, by flow, by strain, by tension
What he has done is commendable. Gradually, with time, the difficulty of (testing the pulse) increases after seeing the instrument.
Accepting, the man ran towards the device. Now everyone listens to illness and pain through instruments.
want. Whatever decision we take on the basis of the device, the patient is not satisfied and the basic nature of the disease
The doctor remains away. For him it comes down to strategy, research, research. mistake in
It definitely happens because the research that should be done on favorable and unfavorable situation happens with the sick person.
Not there. All the expertise got trapped in the storage facility. Fifty rupees for prescribing medicine after seeing the patient. From
Take two thousand rupees. Let's take till. I have seen fifty rupees. The one who takes and prescribes the same medicine costs two thousand rupees.
Rs. An expert from a big city writes about it. Here we pointed out how crazy man is.
It is done. If he thinks that the one who charges more is a better doctor, then he should exceed that limit.
There can be no expectation in that. Thirdly, we never think holistically in medicine, i.e.
Never thought of becoming a doctor, never tried to do so. Medical integrity means health first
Or the strength of health should be recognized. How will you recognize the strength of the disease? Will identify by pulse.
What will you recognize in the pulse? Will tell this in the pulse, will identify the movements of the pulse and will interview the diseases


<newpage>

Jeevan Vidya: An Introduction 9

And based on the symptoms, we will decide that this is the disease. We treat it and it is successful.
Our understanding should be considered correct and if it fails then our understanding is wrong. then this research
It is possible to talk about. In the present situation it can be seen that the way one heals, one heals oneself.
Believes. Whether successful or unsuccessful, we believe that we have given the right treatment. Because of this we
Stuck in life-threatening situation. So first recognize the disease, recognize the severity of the disease, and find the medicines.
Recognizing, recognizing the strength of medicines, recognizing their combinations, their corresponding uses
Identifying, identifying the mentality of the patient, identifying his dietary habits, rules and regulations,
Recognition, then treatment, all put together is holistic healing. complete with medicine
May be medical. Mani therapy talks only about rays and radiation, mantra therapy talks about its
Has more impact on mental waves. Only medicine can improve maximum Rasa Kriyas.
By mixing together the juice is used to bring about change. How to get rid of diseases as per body system
Knows as much as no doctor knows. Body recovery training system in body system
body systemIs contained. Doctors use force on the body. What should the doctor do? 
To strengthen the body, fluids suitable for the body's condition should be given to the body. this doctor
This is his specialty, this is his glory, this is his wisdom-science. With such treatment we can overcome. Therefore
Medicine should be taken out of specialization and made universal.

Health means body. Restraint means from the mind. Whatever justice is done, it is regular
It is based on rules, it is based on control, it is based on balance. this restraint
Is. Hence: A balanced and just mindset is called restraint. What is his medicine?
What should be done for that? For him, wisdom is medicine. Imbalance due to ignorance, mental imbalance,
Wise balance is a very simple formula. In the sense of wisdom, there is complete order and balance.

May the earth go to heaven, and may human beings go to the gods.
May the heat be successful and may it always be auspicious.

०७०७ ० ० ०/०चचर


<newpage>



<newpage>

Veneration towards ancestors and inspirations

Worship those who adorn the earth.
From whom the path of man is filled with light and light.

From whom we got direction for the daily human path.
We definitely found the path, the path we desired.

Gratitude of gentleness, always came continuously.
From whom the path of man is filled with light and light.

Those whose thoughts are auspicious, how can humans be happy?
Due to whose inspiration, human life is happy.

The human tradition from which devotion is dedicated.
From whom the path of man is filled with light and light.

Wish for everyone's happiness, whose inspiration remains.
From which emerged a definite plan for the human path.

Beloved for those who are equipped with Vasundhara.
From whom the path of man is filled with light and light.

Pradeep 'Poorak'
Govindpur, Bijnor


<newpage>



<newpage>

Original Greth

“Existential human centered thinking”
Vs
“Mediated Philosophy Coexistenceism”

Darshan (Intermediate Darshan)
« Philosophy of Human Behavior
« Philosophy of Human Karma
« Philosophy of Human Practice
*« Philosophy of Human Experience

Ism (Coexistenceism)
« Behavioral Democracy
« Reconciliative Materialism
« Experiential Spiritualism

Shastra (existential human centered thinking)
*« Behavioral sociology
« Circular economy
« Human Consciousness Psychology

Constitution

*« Interpretation of human constitutional formula in the form of human code of conduct

Definition
«Definition Code

Other
*« Options and study points
« Health Century


<newpage>

Useful compilation based on intermediate philosophy

introductory collection
« Jeevan Vidya An Introduction
« Divine Path (Biography – Rev. Shri A. Nagaraj)

collaborative compilation
« Dialogue Part -]
« Dialogue Part - 2

Published Book Receipt Email:

000/5809५५8४-०४४॥.00

Download published and unpublished original copy:

४४७४५७.-॥३४०॥५४०७॥.06

general enquiry :

॥रा0809५98-02॥.06

90 ॥ 99757 ॥ 20a9 of Echchna's Hakatiyastvanna. /
“Jeevan Vidya? Activity Information:

44/75-॥70॥530॥-08/9१.60



<newpage>



<newpage>



<newpage>

