existential anthropocentric thinking

Simple

intermediary philosophy coexistence

experiential
spiritualism

Recognition: Comprehensiveness of knowledge and eternity of nature
Principle: Labor - Speed ​​- Result

A. King Cobra
Shri Bhajanashram, Amarkantak
District – Anuppur, M. Q. (India) - 484886


<newpage>

Publisher :
Jeevan Vidya Prakashan, Divyapath Sansthan
Amarkantak, District - Anuppur (M.P.), India, 484886

770-TA55V3-00II.00 | #709T558-9॥.006

Founder and author:
A. King Cobra
All rights reserved with Divyapath Sansthan

Contribution amount: Rs 200/-

Previous editions: First - 2000, Second - 2009
Printing: 44 January 2023

॥589 : 978-8-956883--9

Authentic Website: 547444.840॥588॥.05
Printed book receipt: 000/Q52909558-08॥.06
9 5400A69 : 44457.]54554.00॥

Good use policy:

Printer: Yugbodh Digital Prints,

Samta Colony, Raipur, Chhattisgarh. - 49200

This publication is in the sense of 'all good wishes' and has no commercial purpose. its use and

Copies are available for private study. Also used in any sense (copying, printing, etc.)
To 'Divyapath Sansthan”, Amarkantak, District Anuppur (M.P.) India - 4848886 Pre-written
It is mandatory to take permission. It is expected that when using these concepts elsewhere

Full citation (reference) of the book will be given. Please maintain the sanctity of darshan.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism (0) Introduction

Role

There is ultimate happiness in offering this experiential spiritualistic arrangement to the lotus feet of human beings.
I am experiencing.

Experiential Spiritualism in itself is the mutual discussion of living human beings through empirical method or
In the second language, there is a consultative presentation of living wisdom and science through empirical method.

I was fortunate to be able to experience and express the existence of coexistence.
A pleasant incident happened during my journey in this body. This was the result of my own spontaneous curiosity.
As per destiny, the form, process, goal and direction of expressing the experience became clear to me, which
On this basis the creation of this work was possible.

In summary of all the things I have heard, my aim remained to prove myself.
As a result of this mentality being driven into curiosity, curiosity into research, research into research,
It became possible to conform to destiny. Experiential spiritualism was fully realized in management form.

The meaning underlying the communication of this expression is that giving language form to the experience in itself has become
Is. Similarly, every person who studies it has the glory of accepting the language in its meaning.
happened. It was with this belief that it became possible to offer it to, for, and in the hands of humans.

I have experienced this from the beginning to the end that the understanding done through empirical method i.e. the goal and
Planning and action plan according to direction and results - in the sense of experiencing such results.
Being meaningful was recognized as the form of good fortune for all human beings. For this reason it is necessary for humanity
Has been offered. From this i.e. to live justly, to live contentedly, through an empirical system.
Living in the system, participating in the overall system, all this has become possible.

Participation in the overall system means - in humanitarian education work, justice protection work, family
In production work in excess of requirement, in profit-loss free exchange work, in health-restraint work.
By participating.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism (9) Introduction

We have also realized that the solution for every sane human family is to live a prosperous life.
will be. I also believe that every human being, that is, every man and woman, is thirsty for solutions and prosperity. it
The basic objective of this philosophy of experience is to convert thirst into satisfaction.

Its acceptance among humans, its universalization on the basis of destiny and destiny.
Is necessary. Only after accepting it, it was presented.

I have full faith that this is a result of the efforts made in the human race as a result of the evolution that has been going on since time immemorial.
The book will be useful in reaching the destination of significance.

Be victorious ! Have a nice time! May you be well!

- A. King Cobra


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism (Options)

Option

4. Instability, uncertainty based physical-chemical object centered thoughts versus human beings through scientific method
Could not be studied. Human beings cannot be studied even through mystery based idealistic thinking method.
Found. In both types of debates, human has been called a living being.
As an alternative, philosophy mediated by existential human-centered thinking method, in coexistenceism
Recognized and made humans to be in the state of knowledge.
According to the intermediate philosophy, man is the knower, the one who knows and accepts the existence of co-existence.
Worthy thing i.e. the complete thing to know is the philosophy and knowledge along with it is the knowledge of life.
The method of proving coexistence along with knowledge of humane conduct has become studyable.
Study in the form of existential human-centered thinking knowledge, intermediate philosophy, co-existence science
For has been presented by me to human beings.

2. Before existential human centered thinking, my (A. Nagaraj, Agrahar Nagaraj, District Hassan,
Karnataka State, India) Initiation took place through spiritualistic knowledge, Vedic thoughts and spontaneous worship.

3. According to Vedanta, knowledge is “Brahma is true, the world is false” while the origin of the living world was said to be from Brahma.

Worship :- In reference to Gods and Goddesses.

Karma:- All the deeds received in heaven (in the form of language)

In Manu Dharma Shastra.._ :-. The daily rituals of four varnas and four ashrams are proposed.

Among the rituals:- Sixteen types of rituals from pregnancy to death rites.
Valid and their programs are there.

After studying all this a question arose in my mind that -

4. Satyam Gyanam Anantam How is the living world created from Brahma false? of the contemporary Vedantins and scholars
In order to be curious with me :-
In Samadhi one got the assurance of knowing the unknown. Sadhana, Samadhi, based on the support of scriptures
Approval was given to complete the restraint work. I have experienced complete existence in a state of meditation, samadhi and samyama.
Complete understanding achieved through study, experience method as co-existence, living through which
As a result, an alternative in the form of intermediate philosophy co-existence Vajbhamay appeared.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism(s) Alternatives

According to idealistic scriptures and mystical God-centered thinking knowledge and tradition - knowledge unexpressed
Indescribable.

According to Madhyaya Darshana - knowledge expressed through verbal study is understandable and can be proved through practical method.
It became clear as to be accessible to all.

According to materialism based on instability and uncertainty, science is considered as knowledge in object-centric thinking.
In which it has been said that the rules are man-made. coexistence as an alternative
According to existential human centered thinking knowledge, existence is stable, development and awakening are certain.
The whole rule is to be natural and to remain.

Existence is not just physical and chemical but physical, chemical and life things are included in the broader matter.
The present is indivisible, this is the scripture sutra “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence”.

verification

From where I started my physical journey, my ancestors were called Vedamurthy. Vedas and Vedas in every home and village
Vedanta, Upanishads and philosophy related to thoughts continued to be heard in the form of language, sound and tune.
In the family tradition, worship, adoration and praise continued as per the Vedas.

In our family tradition, top class scholars, service-oriented and hard-working behavior and practice of work.
It was easy because of which I accepted hard work and service tendencies. question mark on scholarship
are.

, The first question that arose was -

How can the origin of the world and the living beings from Brahman Truth be false?
other question -
How is Brahma the cause of bondage and salvation?
Third question -
Word proof or bearer of the word, carrier proof?
Object sentence proof or object sentence evidence?
Scriptural evidence or pioneer evidence?


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism (Sh) Option

Another question arose in the expedient situation

Fourth question -
After independence in India, the Constituent Assembly was formed in which nation, nationality, national character
There should be acceptance in the Constitution that people's representatives are eligible, despite not having any formula.
How is the vote-note (money) alliance giving mandate and public representative?
Secularism in the Constitution - one sentence and with it the protection of many castes, sects and communities
To be mentioned.
Equality in the Constitution – one sentence, along with the mention of reservation and its meaning in the Constitution
To have a process.
Democracy - In governance, there should be an alliance of vote notes in the election process of public representatives.

What kind of democracy is this?

4. To get freedom from the tangle of these questions, we should consult the scholars of that time, the idols of Vedas and respected sages and Maharishis.

By suggestion -

(.) Samadhi was the only way to know the unknown which I accepted.

(2) Accepted Amarkantak as a favorable place for spiritual practice.

(3) Started sadhna work from year 950.
Sadhana reached maturity in the 960s.
In the year 970, the state of attaining Samadhi came to be accepted. my hope in samadhi state
Thoughts and desires remained silent. In such a situation, the phenomenon of the unknown becoming known is also zero.
did you understand. This state of Sahaja Sadhana is maintained for twelve (2) to eighteen (8) hours every day.
Kept happening.
In the sequence of Samadhi, Dharana and Meditation, I accepted the self-spontaneous system of Samyama. abstinence after two years
Being accepted as proof of being in samadhi. Even in the process of achieving self-control through samadhi 2
It took hours to 48 hours. As a result, the entire existence continues to co-exist naturally.

(4

I experienced. Whose famous “intermediate philosophy of co-existence” is in the form of scripture.
has appeared.


<newpage>

experiential spiritualism option

42.

Co-existence:- It was understood that the entire inanimate consciousness is connected and ever-present in the broader object.
In co-existence:- In the form of evolution in the atom, the hungry and indigestion atoms and in the atom itself
It was understood to exist and exist as "life" in the form of evolutionarily satisfied atoms.

It is only in co-existence that it is understood to be in the form of a constituted atomic conscious unit - 'life'.
In co-existence itself:- From hungry and indigestible atomic molecules and vital cells, the entire physical and chemical
To be clear about the creations of life and the creation of earth and many earths made up of atomic molecules.
did you understand.

, In existence on the earth in the form of physical structure, life cells including chemical system process are formed through yogic method.

After becoming prosperous in the form of complete forest plants, living beings come from life cells only.
It is understood that the bodies are composed and the human body is also composed and has traditions.
Came.

- Only in co-existence:- Human tradition was understood to be in the combined form of body and life.

In coexistence, from, for :- Coexistence is understood to be effective continuously. this is the routine
did you understand.

, Destiny method:- Coexistence only by natural method:-

(6) Four states of existence
0 state of matter
0. vital state
0 organism state
0. state of knowledge
And
() Four terms in existence
0. vital force
0. misconception post
0. god position

0. divine position


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism (JA) Alternatives

(#) And

0 development sequence, development

0 awakening order, awakening

And awakening, spontaneous human tradition, participation in the overall system along with humanity, eternal glory.
It made sense to be. I considered this to be the most auspicious sutra and accepted it to be a wish of good fortune for all human beings.
As a result, consciousness development, values, education, constitution, conduct system, simple sutra interpretation in front of human beings.
Have presented.

The land should be heaven, man should be god,
May religion be successful, may everyday be auspicious.

- A. King Cobra


<newpage>

Inferential Spiritualism (Ja) from this book
from this book

* In a confused state, living like creatures, contrary to humanity, is seen, whereas
The originality of man is humanity itself. Awakening to humanity through spontaneous method, spontaneous method
Is certified by.

*« After experience (awakening), one is able to participate in the human system ethically.
Behaves characterfully and is able to live with relationships, values, evaluations and ambivalence.
This is the nature of the art of living happily, beautifully and contentedly.

* « After awakening, every person naturally acquires the accumulated reputation with abundance, love and affection.
To complement reputation, to live with knowledge and to live with knowledge, to coexist with simplicity and prestige.
Philosophically, Abhay works to enhance the reputation through humane conduct.
What happened can be seen.

* Awakened life is the knower, the entire existence including life is knowable and the reflection of awakened life.
Activity is knowledge.

* « Asha Bandhan is the feeling of being happy through the senses, Vichar Bandhan is the way a person controls his thoughts.
It is in the form of believing it to be the best and the binding of desires is in the form of clarifying the superiority of the creative work.
Is.

« Because life is eternal, existence remains present. this human body travel time
In this world they are called human beings, after leaving the body they are called gods, goddesses and ghosts.



<newpage>

Metaphysical Spiritualism Fay Index

index

chapter page number
4. Review and proposal
2. Experiential Spiritualism: An Introduction 5
3. The innate authenticity of experience is the same for all human beings 27
4... The soul is inseparable from life 24

Table - 22 Practices of Awakened Life 44
5... bondage and liberation 65
6. Envy, doer, enjoyer 403

7... Jagriti Kaivalya 37


<newpage>



<newpage>

experiential spiritualism and

Chapter - |

review and proposal

Since the distant past, spiritualist, super-divine and super-materialist ideas have been prevalent in the human psyche through memory and
Are in the form of Shruti. A lot of speculative writings have been done on the basis of imaginations and hypotheses. In this
Many people participated and worked hard. In this sequence, severe penance, yoga practice,
In the form of Yagya and charity, they lived or demonstrated their respective beliefs. all these
These actions have also been considered as idealistic actions. Because not everyone could perform all these activities. not to do
For Vala, Greth described all types of religions as actions worth doing. after doing all this
Also spirituality, gods and God, all this remained a mystery. The definition of mystery is - what we humans know
Not all that mystery has been revealed. Despite not knowing about this method, all the attempts were made to convince
All of that counted as believer's activity. The very definition of faith is not knowing anything.
To accept the existence of. This is well known.

The existence of the living world under the subordination of God, spirituality and Gods and Goddesses has been described in the scriptures. Stranger
In order to explain the events, the living world is dependent on spirituality, Gods and Goddesses and in support of this.
A lot has been written. With the glory of all these efforts i.e. employing many resources
Even after this, there is no proof from study method, no proof from experience method, no proof from experiment method and
No evidence was found from the behavioral method. Whereas no human likes secrets. based on faith
He went on to decorate the mystery as per his imagination and became the form of Vadgamaya. its basis
Only human innate imagination-action is freedom and while doing human action, one is free and enjoys the fruits.
Was dependent on time.

This review has been presented here because every human being wants truth, solution, order, justice, prosperity, fearlessness,
Want to prove coexistence. Every human being is a truth speaker by birth, hence the understanding of truth.
Needs to happen. Realizing the truth through materialistic and idealistic methods is essential for mankind.
Awaited. Therefore, holistic solution and sense of justice is still awaited, i.e. 20th century
Awaited till the tenth decade of. According to Vikram Shatabdi, it is awaited till 2052 Ashadha month. This 


<newpage>

2 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Recognized the need for “experiential spiritualism” based on survey, observation and testing.
Went.

On the basis of mysterious and beautiful imagination i.e. in an attractive way, about salvation and heaven in the world.
Imaginations have been presented. As far as salvation is concerned, it has been said through spiritual methods that the
The soul resides in the heart. That soul merges into Brahma or God. Brahma knowledge for this
It was said to be the only place of refuge. Some pioneers say that this is possible through solitary method and some
The pioneers say that by extreme penance, some pioneers say by practicing yoga, by taking refuge in the Sangh,
And some pioneers say that it happens due to combination and coincidence. All these measures mentioned regarding salvation
Indicated in the order. To point out means in an acceptable manner. and some more pioneers
People say that during the doomsday, the result will be salvation in the form of salvation in the living world, in Brahma or in the gods and goddesses.
Mergers take place. (“He” means spirituality, God, goddesses, gods mentioned above) will do good to everyone.
Till then, living along with the divine rules is the constitution of religion. Let's say this.

As far as heaven is concerned, efforts were made in the Vaadmayas to preserve it in a place different from this earth. those-those
The existence of gods and goddesses in the world and their beauty and happiness being under their control.
It has been told. In these illusions, heaven is decorated in the most mesmerizing and attractive ways.
It has been said that virtue is the only capital required to reach there. to virtue
To achieve it, it is necessary for the selfish person to be altruistic. Over-indulgence is wrong. of this
At the same time, renunciation was preached to fulfill the qualification for heaven. Maximum happiness-
By donating opportunistic things to worthy deserving people, assurance of getting infinite number of comforts and facilities in heaven.
Written in books. Meditation, remembrance and actions were said to be the sources of earning virtue. along with this
Service to incarnate Acharya, Guru, Siddha, persons capable of giving assurance, good advice, donations offered for them,
Praise, Kirtan tell all the methods to earn virtue. Along with this, charity, creatures, animals, birds
Also asked to be kind to love, flowers, leaves and trees. Also to wash and stabilize the mind
Many things have been said. Despite the abundance of all these teachings, fear, temptation and
Nothing more than actions has been seen in human tradition on this entire earth. i.e. preaching
There was no evidence to support what had been said. This 
It was on the basis of review that the necessity of “experiential spiritualism” was accepted.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 3

The second mode led to the advancement of ideas on the basis of human natural imagination and freedom of action, which is called
We are saying materialistic views. The basis of complete well-being is comfort and convenience and the form of heaven is physical.
It was said to be the object itself. It was also accepted by most of the people. Thus towards the invisible
To have faith in the things which are visible through other means, the basis or development of complete happiness.
Was seen to be based on. Materialism is a struggle, oscillating between fear and temptation.
Seen as preparing the mindset. The essence of materialism is found in the form of review.
That being prepared for conflict is the activity of atoms, molecules and bodies composed of molecules. in the same order human
It is also a body composed of chemical-physical substances. They have the right to struggle the most. Its
Experimenting is said to be progress and development. This fear, temptation, trapped in control points
By breaking away from beliefs, everything that could be found in heaven became possible to be found here. necessary for him
As those who were educated in materialistic education, to fight the struggle with many methods.
The tendencies kept on increasing, that is, they kept on increasing. Whereas every human being is under the influence of fear and temptation.
Only he struggles. From ancient times till the tribal era there was fear and temptation.

The king and the Guru together gave the opportunity to mankind, who was afraid of natural oppression, to heaven and salvation,
Kept assuring safety of life and property. Till the Kabila era, struggle was fought with hands, feet, nails, fists, stones,
Had reached the stick and sword. As soon as the royal court arrived, there was progress in the study of combat power accumulation.
Whatever was done by name, everything was done with guns, gunpowder, hand grenades, slingshot system, bow system as well.
radar system combined kill, destructive biological chemical atomic bombs, long hit, medium hit, near hit
The methods were achieved systematically and technically. Fear naturally persists in this
Went. Temptation, snatching, deception, betrayal, rebellion, deception, conceit, hypocrisy, etc.
Mutual exploitation reached its peak. He kept provoking the collection facility as a temptation.
What this means is that the fear and temptation that existed in the beginning has been replaced by the fear of hell and fear of heaven.
Idealism established as a counter temptation, from materialism to convenience, accumulation, enjoyment, over-indulgence.
While luring, kidnapping, snatching or robbing someone else, the other person will do something, this
A conflict mentality was formed based on the adoption of repressive measures due to fear. most of this
People are found to have an inclined mind. Its first evidence collection, second evidence repressive measures
One has to be proficient in it. Individuals, families and every community to be equipped against such repressive measures
In order to become more and more equipped, he was seen throughout the earth performing yatra, prayatra, karmabhyasa and yuddha-practice.


<newpage>

4 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Does matter. With these testimonies, the ancient times, i.e. the times endured in the trees, caves and caves,
The fear and apprehension that had created the greatest havoc in the human psyche in the 19th century has remained the same. with him
Temptation mentality is gradually increasing and every person keeps the entire wealth of the earth locked in his own safe.
The situation can be surveyed by imagining taking. The testimony of this is the satisfaction of the collection.
There is no point.

As said above, the human mentality is the animating thing at the root of the entire analysis and review. heaven Hell
Fear, temptation, convenience collection, indulgence and overindulgence of human race in these layouts, in these rooms, in these movements.
Swarup has been unable to explain the formula of trust between each other. Therefore all human beings
Even in mutuality, coexistence is always effective, innate truth, accuracy, reality are teachable,
“Experiential Spiritualism” including accessible, universalizing programs is a humanistic approach to the human psyche.
It has been considered very necessary. Therefore, the pole of existence is natural coexistence, accepted by humans.
In the middle of the pole of authenticity, there is an innate necessity, necessity, purpose and its continuity.
I have presented it according to knowledge, wisdom and science.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 5

Chapter 2

Experiential Spiritualism: An Introduction

The entire idealism like spiritualism, super-divineism, super-materialism is based on mystery and imagination.
Vajgamaya continued to be composed in Yogphal. The basic meaning of these Vadramas lies in the faithful attitude towards credit.
All that remained was to change the human psyche. Because fear is not acceptable to anyone, temptation is based on imagination.
It was not possible to provide similar items. On this basis, salvation after the journey of the body and
The assurances of attaining heaven were presented in various ways by idealistic thought. this self also
Became the basis of diverse community and its identity. This is also on the basis of community identity
Could not be free from war.

Inspired by the believer's mentality, everything starts from the said mysterious mystery, complete absorption in the mystery.
Presented an imaginative way to go. All these are related to mystical, mysterious God, spirituality, gods.
On the basis of creation, situation, rhythm and heaven and in the form of the one who was propounded as the giver of salvation.
There was a need. Respectable people kept presenting accordingly or on the basis of presentation
Was honoured. More circumstances arose during this decade. By materialistic method, human beings can destroy the earth only.
As a result of injury, the earth changed its shape on the basis of enjoyment mentality.
Population problem, environmental problem, economic and political problem along with business and job.
The problem was seen in the form of pain in every house, at every ghat, from person to person. Both of these (idealism
And materialism) thought is essentially mysterious. On the basis of this, all these problematic programs
For out of the confused human tradition declaring the source of happiness or solace “experiential
It was considered necessary to present “Spiritualism”.

The basis of experience is basically seen to be coexistence. Coexistence is ever present. non existence
Neither decreases nor increases. Existence itself is coexistence. In existence, from, for, by coexistence method
Evolution in atoms was seen to occur by the method of complementation. All the atoms that are there in this evolution
Has been seen participating in physical and chemical activities. nuclear evolution
Being formed is found to be infected in the word Chaitanya. This conscious unit “life” is responsible for hope, thought,


<newpage>

6 Intermediate philosophy Co-existentialism (existential human-centric thinking)

Working willingly. Every human being is a combined form of life and body. To understand the meaning of seeing,
To understand means to communicate through an experiential method. Many physical and chemical activities
Molecules are formed from atoms, small and big bodies are formed from many molecules. such bodies
The form of light is visible in the form of planets, spheres, constellations etc. and there are chemical activities on this earth.
Or on the basis of chemical fertilizer, many species of plants, many species of animal world.
Are visible. At the root of all this, the atom is seen as a daily active object.
The fact of evolution taking place in the atom itself is based on the existence of different numerical atomic fractions in every atom.
As seen. By undergoing such atomic evolution, chemical-physical
The human being is able to see while remaining illuminated while carrying out the activities in a fixed arrangement.
Every human being sees it in a partial form and at the same time there is a need to see it in its complete form.
The possibility remains and remains expedient. In the sense of understanding i.e. communicated, published, through empirical method.
It is easy to understand the whole thing as human due to the way it is expressed. In this sequence human origin or
Universal purpose requires acceptance of living with wisdom. By this method every human being has loyalty and
Responsibility is necessary. Responsibility means performing responsibilities and duties in a spontaneous manner.
And loyalty means the thread connected with understanding that maintains its continuity.
Such formulas have been seen to be linked to experience only. Thus, experiential expression, communication, publication
Through this method, the understanding, imagination, thoughts and desires of the completeness inherent in every human being can be seen as a accessible place.
It falls.

Existence itself is in the form of chemical-physical planets, spheres, universes, human beings are endowed with innate imagination, thoughts, desires,
It is found to be accompanied by feelings. All the human beings (combined form of life and body) till now
It has been possible to prove the dimensions only by assessing the form and quality. its basis
But the desired mechanical hypothesis which is positive, through telehearing, television, telepathy method and food-
Receipts are visible in the form of housing, decorations and materials. This is the denial of the human being by definition.
All these are achieved in accordance with the concepts or depictions that are being realized or in accordance with the desires.
The other side which is negative for humans is the use of strategic machinery and equipment as junk.
He is always intervening in natural, geographical and cosmic music. In this every
The community has been seen to have a fighting tendency. It also became clear that due to struggle
Humans have spoiled the face of the earth. As a result, the earth and its environment are also changing, which


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism

On this basis, whether the human tradition living on this earth will continue to exist or not remains a question mark.
Have reached. The general effect of this question mark is visible on the entire geography. its description
Will be presented in detail at necessary places.

Be it through idealistic or materialistic method, the journey that man has taken so far has been healthy.
There is no space. It has been seen mainly to be based on imagination and illusion. Existence
Developments in nuclear power are continuing in force. Anusyut is an action. In this sequence, conformational completeness in the atom is an amazing
To be in the form of a transitional event or to be in the form of a fundamental change. Life to be ever present.
Has been observed. The conscious unit continues to exist naturally in the form of such a formed atomic life.
Has been observed. Coexistence is a daily manifestation, it is present. Such life itself has inexhaustible power,
Remaining active with inexhaustible strength was found to be the proof of existence and experience in existence.
By systematically studying between the spontaneous eternal poles, every person will understand that “Life!
It is the form of a fully formed atom, it is a conscious unit, it is atom-molecular bond, free from weight-bondage and bond of hope.
Publishes its executive from. The bondage of hope, thought and desire to illusion gives life to the body.
The efficiency is revealed on the basis of understanding. After this, the efficiency of awakening and
Through awakening and awakened action, the study of existence becomes accessible and experiential. this experiential
Spiritualism implies.

The inanimate-conscious nature is saturated, active and present in the uniform energy of the universal object. in coexistence
The seer, doer and enjoyer of experience is only human. Human is a combined form of “body” and “life”. it well
It is understood from. The form of the body is proved in the form of physical-chemical composition which is made up of vital cells and
On the basis of composition formula, the body structure of various lineages is understood to be in its original form.
The proof of this is the existence of diverse forms of creation, animals of diverse shapes, human body structures.
The present situation is being accomplished through hereditary method. The entire proof is proved in the present only. This
It becomes clear that there are different types of physical-chemical compositions. diversity of creation is breed
It is natural to be the basis of. Whereas life should be the same in every race, every color, every country, every time.
Has been observed. The proof of this is the imagination and freedom of action present in every human being located in every country and every time.
To be is surveyed. Secondly, every human being can be seen working with freedom of action and the results
While suffering, being dependent or helpless has also been seen. dependency and compulsion


<newpage>

8 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It means experiencing the desired or expected result despite it not happening. Example: Dirty air is not desired by anyone.
Is. Man himself has done such deeds (in this 200 years only, 00 years in the maximum form)
In) that the rare element of vital air flowing all over the earth has been spoiled - while doing this
Every scientist has been independent. Every industrialist has been independent from the identity of capital. forced to suffer it
Is. Similarly, air, soil and water pollution is caused by the residual effects of radioactive activities.
The rejections of problems, i.e. climate and earth pollution, are gradually increasing among humans. of such crisis
In the end, it is natural for the solution to come from humans only. Life is also the observer of the body, therefore
The awakened human being has been found to be the solution to every problem and its constant source.

Man mistakenly considers his body as life and performs all his activities - only then all that is done.
Result in problems. Problems are not acceptable to humans. according to scientists
The body itself is said to be life. This is the main point of confusion whereas cognition and sensitivity
Balance-music is essential. Sensitivity and cognitive ability are found in every human being.
On the basis of the above mentioned example, it becomes clear that human beings are free to do their own work, science,
From technical, technological method to strategic viewpoints and from the inherent human temptation in the form of facility accumulation.
For the sake of satisfaction, the entire environment was polluted and the earth became sick. This science is spontaneous action-
It is the fruit of freedom. After the environmental balance becomes natural, the music becomes natural, the concept and experience become
Man ceases to employ his karmic freedom in problematic activities. cognizance
Experience is the formula – sensitivity is the formula. Experience is the form of knowledge. it self routine solution
And there is authenticity.

All empirical activities are certified as truth, solution and justice. justice we
Have experiences with natural and human relationships. It is an entity capable of being experienced by every human being.
The need is always there. In human tradition, only experiential expression is meaningful for the state of knowledge,
It is seen to be a necessary, desired task. On this basis, this book can be considered as an empirical idea.
The need for presentation arose.

The state of knowledge is the supreme proof in the form of authenticity of experience in a natural human being. rules, justice,
Religion and truth were seen to be proved only through empirical method. Basic form of experience (fixed point)
It is the satisfaction point of knowing and believing. The fundamental condition of knowing and believing is reason-attribute-mathematics only.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 9

It is found only in humans. It is a combination of imagination and the possibility of awakening.
is found. Similarly, rules, justice, religion, truth also become known and believed through the method of study.
As a result, the possibility of recognizing and living in order to be authentic is created.

The satisfaction of knowing and accepting the nature of authenticity is to be experienced. basics of knowing
There is only existence in the form of coexistence. Life and awakening in existence itself, development and creation in existence itself-
Decomposition has been observed. This is what it means to know. On this basis, the entire human behavior
The meaning of experience is that it has been determined, human tradition has been certified through the prescribed method. This justice,
Religion and truth have been seen to be meaningful only through the method of simple experience.

Above, the words of knowing, believing, recognizing and living have been used. Of these things to know
The main thing has been described as coexistence. Existence itself is ever present in the form of coexistence.
The nature of coexistence is nature imbued with existence. Life is all about finding the answer to why and how.
The process of awakening is spontaneous initiation and awakening. In every endeavor, man wants achievement. attainment itself
Is the basis of recognition. To know is the existence of life and awakening of life in existence itself. in existence
One has to know the development, creation and destruction. Because existence is always present; 'whatever' exists
It is also 'everything' humans want to know. It is possible to know this, we have seen this. human
And there is always a relationship in natural reciprocity because coexistence is always effective. knowing it
It is easy for an awakened human being. Along with this, i.e. knowing the values ​​along with the relationship is also important for the awakened human being.
It is very easy for him. Experience presents simple evidence of human existence itself. humans in existence
Only through awakening one knows the system, its universality, society and its integrity.

The result of knowing comes in the form of believing. The form of acceptance is: “This is true, it has to be accepted.”
And the true natural purpose is to accept the situation and movement related to oneself or to everyone.
This makes it clear that it is easy to know the innate realities of every situation. In this sequence his
To “coexist” with motion and purpose is to accept the needs for, from, because
Purpose is a need in every person. Therefore, the process of knowing and believing is most fundamental in humans.
In other nature, the activities of identification and subsistence are seen only in mechanical form.

Only human beings are useful in identifying and living on the basis of knowing and believing. basis for belief
There has to be a purpose. The basis of knowing lies in the answers to why and how. Also, what is the “object” like? it


<newpage>

Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Also comes to know. How is the thing? This is the form of knowing. From this the answer to why and how arises itself.
It comes out spontaneously. To believe is meaningful in the sense of recognizing the purpose. As-
Knowing the innate daily state of existence, recognizing the purpose of coexistence is found to be natural.
Went.

Existence itself proves the meaning of subsistence as an act of recognizing spontaneous coexistence.
Is. To know in this way is celebration and excitement to believe; To recognize, to recognize, to celebrate
And there is excitement; To know, to believe and to recognize is a celebration and enthusiasm to live. This is in every human being
It is a heart-warming and acceptable formula.

Earlier it has also been reminded that the process of identifying and subsisting in non-human nature also
The law is ever present. By this method, the evidence of spontaneous splendor can be seen in the material state, vital state and living states.
gets to. Seeing means understanding. Human beings prove their visible status in existence.
It is there, it is capable of being proved, it is bound to be proved. It is an obligation to understand.

The human innate need to bring solutions to whatever problems we have
Draws attention to the fact that every human being must orient himself towards solutions.
Wanted while the solution is not readily available. As the body travels in confused human traditions
Every initiated human being expects justice, wants to behave rightly,
From the very beginning the truth remains a speaker in a self-spontaneous manner and it remains alive in every human child. it every
Human surveys. From this it follows that in case of human tradition being awakened, every
Truthful understanding in human children, intuitive study object and system, humane conduct based evidence based education.
And the situation of being social in behavior and self-reliant in business along with values ​​is appropriate. tell above
Transforming into form has been seen to be a spontaneous activity of awakened human tradition. this tradition itself
Being a truthful speaker even when not awake, doing right work and behavior, justice being an innate need.
Acceptance is seen in every human being. This is the best conclusion of this survey. This
Based on the conclusion, there is a need to prove that the human tradition is an awakening tradition.
The need to prove it, to see it in the form of aspiration, hope or aspiration in every human being.
Get. Abhishsa means desire for Abhyudaya, Abhyudaya means all-round solution.
Is. Hope means the hope of being happy including the hope of living. Aspiration means one's own-


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 44

It is with the hope of becoming happy on the basis of spontaneous habits and with effort. desire implies wisdom
Including illustrations to prove loyalty. In this way, good wishes continuously arise in every human being.
Hee. To the point of validating good wishes as auspicious, of awakening, versus experience.
Expectation and experience remain the same. Such experiences are expected to be established in tradition and
The experience remains. After such experiences are established in the tradition, human beings will remain forever.
Tradition proves all that is good through an empirical system. Empirical method-methodology healthy-
Beautiful solution: It has been observed with full policy that -

() Solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence, this is all auspicious. This is a daily expectation for, from, and for all human beings.
Is. For this, humans have been engaged in experiments, research and research.

(2) Life is full of happiness, peace, contentment and joy. Such human beings are easy, auspicious, humane and conduct well.
Is. The auspicious, beautiful and resolved form of every individual is the 'autonomous human being'. wish the entire family well
Which again is solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence. This is the formula and explanation of a united society. it
It can be proved only through empirical method. System including existence, spontaneous coexistence, holistic system
In the order of participation, there is only family based self-rule system. Coexistence, belief in the present, solution,
Prosperity is a form of experience. Life is something worth experiencing.

On the basis of human being being in the position of observer, it becomes clear that human being is the one in every dimension, angle, direction, perspective.
And existence in all space and time is in natural coexistence, coexistence is in natural relationships, relationships are in natural values,
The daily opportunity to remain immersed in evaluation versus innate experiences of values ​​is all appropriate. here this
The purpose of pointing out the facts is that all human beings can find rules, justice and solutions through empirical method.
Seen to be certified in, from, for. This is accepted by all humans. experiential on this basis
Spiritualism was communicated on the basis of being adept in publishing, communicating and expressing it.
Due to this, the method of living in, for, for human beings through empirical method has been replaced by the method based on science and wisdom.
It will be easy to complete with study. This is the wish of this presentation.

Experience is the concrete proof of every human being. In practice, even in experiment, human experience is the basis of communication.
It is the basis and not an instrument or a Vadmamaya. The glory of the empirical method is that every issue can be verified as an object.
The state of being and enlightening, making understanding accessible through teaching and being adept in practice and application itself-
It is spontaneous. In this sequence, the art of living humanely, the style of thinking and the power of experience.


<newpage>

V2 Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

To keep establishing them in the form of sanskars and to know the entire sanskar and understanding in an experiential order-
The satisfaction of believing is easy to express in proving the point. Through this method, the ultimate experience is achieved.
Every human being is anxious and restless to be the bearer. It is easy to be meaningful.

Human tradition is destined to remain confused as long as the dogmatism of community and community necessity,
The dogma of accumulating conveniences, the dogma of indulgence and overindulgence, which believes that man is fundamentally unhappy.
Dogmatism, dogmatism that believes that one community is selfish, ignorant and sinful, one community considers itself righteous and others are righteous.
The dogma of considering a heretic, the dogma of treason-rebellion-exploitation and considering war as a necessity,
All dogmas will remain for the individualistic (egotistic) mentality. The solution to this is awakening.
Only in awakened tradition i.e. awakened education-culture, awakened justice system and awakened production work.
system, awakened profit-loss free exchange system and awakened health restraint should be accessible from generation to generation.
Is from. In such a fully awakened tradition, it is an intact tradition to remain awakened from generation to generation. such a tradition
In this, the methodology, method and policy of having a united society, a universal system accessible to all will remain operational, as a result:
It is natural for various communities to merge with the illusion adopted on their own. it's empirical
There is splendor found in the process of living.

In continuation of the above example, all the dogmas in the glory of human tradition flowed into the awakened tradition.
Are merged. Just as after correct mathematical knowledge, there are no mistakes left in mathematics.
Similarly, in order to live a life of awakening, all illusions dissolve. as a collection facility
Dogmas and compulsions have been seen to merge with prosperity. indulgent indulgence
Inclination and disparities to utilize, utilize and make purposeful use of body, mind and money.
The illusions merge with the evidence. The throne of religion, the throne of kingship, the throne of business and the throne of education which are
By dogmatically considering human beings as sinful, ignorant, foolish, backward, downtrodden and unhappy, their ego and ego
Keep increasing. Awakened tradition is the proof of autonomy through spontaneous method, family is human natural proof and
The merger of all these dogmas with the proof of family based self-rule system, solution, prosperity and proof.
Become. Also, as a proof of this awakening, it is natural for a unified society and universal system to be certified.
Due to this, all communitarian and individualist identities will automatically merge. out of confusion
In human tradition itself, various communities and their identities have been linked to treason, rebellion, exploitation and war.
Accepting the necessity, deceit, fraud, arrogance and hypocrisy have been subjugated, all these would have merged only then.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 43

This is the moment in which the family based self-rule system is established with awakening on this earth. This 
With this the simple form of a united society becomes well known and certified.

The dogma which is responsible for the individualistic (egotistic) mentality is anti-social at its core.
Sutras have always flourished. Because the existence of society, system and overall system is natural, it
When we understand clearly, we find that this existence is a natural coexistence formula. coexistence
It is on the basis of the sutra that the united society and the universal system have become known to us. Based on this fact
As long as man is awakened, even if the divisions mentioned above continue to exist. as soon as unbroken
Society, universal system is established in tradition, individualistic egoism automatically achieves merger.
We do.

Individualistic egoism is influenced by power-centered governance and the rights provided for exercising rights in it.
By using this, all the discrepancies would create a distance between the official mind and the public mind.
It goes, this is all an orgy of problems. As a result of being in trouble or being forced to
As a result one is found to be individualistic. Such as - possessiveness, indulgence, devotionalism and
Dispassionate All this has been accepted in the earlier writings in the form of individualistic identity. these four
The first issue in the situations is authoritarianism. This has been clarified in the meaning of inconsistencies. of this
In the course of incidental clarification, power-centric governance is the practice of controlling a piece of land by several communities.
It is seen thriving in the area. This is a well known fact. This is called nation and state.
It is natural for there to be a community of people living in that area who respect the Constitution. their
There is also an expectation of equality in language and culture. In the same sequence, the national language is also included in the Constitution.
The provision remains in place. In principle, all constitutions have their own religion, work, worship, practice, sect.
The main purpose of the declaration of independence and the prevention of crime, crime and war remains the same
Is. The one who told right from wrong happened with the help of king and guru. it still happens somewhere
Will also happen. According to the mentality of the public representatives in most of the regions i.e. in states and nations,
Error, crime and justice are accepted as judgments - not as 'objects' of reality.
in the form of.


<newpage>

Vav Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The activities of the entire country and its people are seen in this way - () Participation in governance activities
There are some people doing (sharing of rights). (2) Some people do not want to participate in government work.
Do not make a living - these are also called the general public.

The common people themselves are worried about their livelihood and keep making efforts, some people enthusiastically.
Let's also try. The convenience of these common people is also accepted as a humanitarian aspect in governance.
Keeps happening. All such work has been seen to be based on money. Facilitative actions of the general public-
Activities include roads, hospitals, water, post, telephone, education-literacy, housing, telecommunication works.
Is seen in. Mainly these are called development works.

Rule mentality flourished in human beings from the time when acts of violence reached their zenith. i.e. every day
The situation of living suffering from violence, suspicion and fear started. King and Guru to provide relief from this
Gave assurance, public consent was received for this. The testimony of this is that kings and gurus were established. Now!
Till now, the grandeur of the royal throne and religious throne can be seen. It is mainly notable
The fact to be remembered is that to stop the common fighting, more than that, that is, the fighting among the common people.
Efforts were made to adopt a more effective method than that. From this illustration this
It is understandable that it was considered necessary to stop the fighting from happening. Same in today's constitution
Is sounded. Whereas fighting only resulted in fighting again, after the war, preparations for war again took place.
It just happened. No path to peace was found through this method. At the same time, every religion is a supporter of peace.
Has been, still is. Despite this, the mentality of one's own in religion and one's own in state continued to flourish.
This shows that contradictions continued to arise in the tireless efforts of both of them. There was always external opposition.
In the state tradition, there has been a distance between doing and being. There was a distance between saying and doing in the throne of religion. This only
It was the cause of conflict in human communities. External opposition remained in the form of own and alien. Thus
The nature of mentality at the root of religion and state is clear.

It is known in human tradition that it is essential for mentality to be at the core of human activity.
A human being without mentality is declared dead or unconscious. distorted mentality (acceptable, normal
A person with opposite mentality) is declared crazy, unbalanced or sick.
All these activities are desired, desired and necessary in the mind, body, every moment, every moment, every day.
In order to be influenced during the journey, state mentality, religious mentality, business mentality, rights


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 45

Mentality, enjoyment mentality, convenience-collection mentality are reviewed. justice mentality, religion
(Solution) Mindset, Rules Mindset, Authenticity Mindset, Prosperity Mindset,
Coexistence mentality, faith in the present mentality, family mentality, autonomous mentality, society
mentality, system mentality, human education-culture mentality, health restraint mentality
Evaluation is possible in the awakened tradition. Work done through empirical method,
Thoughts, offering-dedication, relationships-value-evaluation-ambivalence, family, production in excess of natural needs,
Profit-loss free exchange, authentic enlightenment (explaining what has been understood, getting it done, learning
All these positive achievements are found to be easily accessible in human tradition only by teaching others.
This entire splendor is the experiential expression and mentalities in human tradition.

In place of idealism and materialism, existential human-centric thinking versus intermediate philosophy,
A natural solution to all the positive aspects mentioned above in the coexistence sequence and its continuation.
The expediency of remains proposed. This was seen to be a complementary quality of experiential idealism.

Basically, it is only through the sequence of experiences that life in the human race is awakened and all the positive aspects are achieved in a natural way.
Has been seen to be certified. On the contrary, it is due to delusion, that is, due to the mentality affected by illusion.
Human beings live on the basis of various communities, states, religions, castes, creeds, sects, wealth, position and military power.
We also consider it as developed or underdeveloped. Nothing emerges as a purpose.
Co-existence, solution, fearlessness and prosperity could not be proved in the human race. This made it clear
That in awakening human mentalities work in positive aspects, in inhumanity in negative aspects.
Being illusory in negative action and meaningful in positive action with awareness, evaluated
It is seen to happen, to be reviewed, to come to fruition.

The mentality of power-centric governance has become evident in the confused tradition itself. This has also been glimpsed together
It is believed that solution-oriented family-oriented self-rule is the most auspicious program.

There has been a competition for rights till this decade. Rights are the first to participate in governance and the form of governance.
It is clear that it is based on the mentality of Governance mentality based on self-delusion
The preparation is found to be an illusion, an illusion, with confused expectations. feature collection
The mentality of entitlement persists only for the sake of it. possessive mentality, possessive
The illusion in the mentality, and in the mentality of rights enforcement, which creates one's superiority and inferiority of others.


<newpage>

V6 Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It remains the same and in practice it is only responsible for causing harm to others. Like - 'slavery'
They consider themselves to be the best in governing, and consider themselves superior to those who are not in governance.
It has been seen that decisions have been taken in all aspects i.e. decisions have been taken even before the dialogue. Its
Evidence: Till now the meeting point of governance mentality with public mentality has not been established. Whereas
A code of conduct is presented in the form of a method of conduct through religious governance. of divine law
Evening worship-prayer practice is explained in the form of language. person sitting on the throne of every religion
Considering yourself the best and everyone else as ignorant-sinful-selfish, your language, tone, posture, gestures etc.
Whereas this is completely indicative of confusion. Because under the influence of confused religion, confused state
It is natural for people's minds to remain confused, hence music, in harmony with religion, state and public mentality,
Solution not presented. All three end up directionless, interiorless and meaningless. Namely:
This is called a problem. Thus, till the last decade of the twentieth century, the seat of religion and the seat of state were
Identity is clear. In the form of a proposal i.e. in the sense of a solution-centered universal system and a united society.
“Experiential Spiritualism” vs. Experiential Idealism has been presented.

Enforcement of rights as envisaged in the illusory religion and state tradition in the sense of accumulation, convenience and enjoyment
The end was seen to be coming. In today's situation, a person who has the authority to exercise centralized governance
The nature of success is visible in such a way that the countrymen are given the slogan of hard work and honesty.
And kept reciting lessons and strengthening his collection not only at home but also abroad. This 
This is what is known when we see the form of a person who has attained authority (a person who has attained Siddhi) in a successful religion.
To teach the lesson of renunciation and renunciation in the world and to strengthen our financial system as much as possible in our country.
Maintain it.

In this way, the state power, religious authority and the form of a successful person have changed in the last decade of this twentieth century.
It is visible. This is the testimony of an illusory religion, an illusory state. While “human religion” is intact
Being meaningful and accessible to all is found only in the form of society, the universal system. complete with this method
“Experiential Spiritualism” is the formula for happiness of all human beings.

First issue – Do we need a power-centric governance or a solution-centric system?

Second issue – Do we need collection facility or do we need justice, solution and prosperity?


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 7

Third issue - For this, profit-obsessed economics, indulgent sociology, sex-obsessed psychology, education
Need as the object of or circular economics, behavioral sociology and human consciousness
Should psychology be a subject of education?

Fourth issue – Should science be deconstructionist (natural imbalance) or coexistence (natural
Equilibrist) Want science?

Denying these positive-negative forms of education that have been done so far and
Positive side proposed in support of solution materialism, behavioral democracy
And should we have experiential spiritualism (coexistence) or dialectical materialism, conflict democracy,
Mystical spiritualism (idealism) is needed.

Is mystical God-centered thinking and instability-based, uncertainty-based object-centered thinking necessary or existence?
Do we need original human-centric thinking?

This is the opportune moment for the human race to take a decision. It was said in favor of denying or affirming
Introduction to the world view, thought style, and influence of the scriptures systems most people have.
Presented in the form of holder-carrier with investigation. And the proposed philosophy versus thinking, style of thinking
The names and names of the proposed scriptures were presented before man. In this place, here in this “experiential
While studying “Spiritualism”, we are bringing to the mind of the intelligentsia that the proposed thinking-
In the name of philosophy, intermediate philosophy, co-existence, all three debates and three scriptures are propounded as Vadgaramaya,
Have presented it in a formulated and explained manner. Therefore the illusory method as the basis of mentality
From this decade to this decade, what human beings have suffered and how to live with awakening and experience evidence as a proposal.
Our need is to pave a well-planned path for its success and to make it accessible to all.
Means efforts.

With a confused state and religion, trade has become exploitative. The business mentality is one of exploitation
There is only one loud voice, all deceit, deceit, arrogance and hypocrisy are included in it. In this sequence, non-human
More and more in goods trade, human trade, prostitution trade, religion trade, knowledge trade, technology trade
Individuals have become prone. The root cause of this is confused community traditions. every human being by business method
He always exploits someone. Treason and rebellion do happen in the state system. Apna Parya in Dharma Mode


<newpage>

48 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Remains. Many speeches in the name of Sarvdharma Sammelan from the middle of this century till now
Celebrities who do this have been seen. Everyone says their own religion is superior. sometimes each other
Also appreciated. Despite this, the ethnic-religious conflict, in other ways, is based on the ethnic-religious mentality.
But conflicts with states, attempts to grab power, to suppress and harass have been seen. while human
Caste is one, religion is one, resulting in united society, universal system, peace, justice, security, prosperity,
Solution, co-existence, awakening of faith in the present is always expedient in a natural way. this is empirical
Idealism, humanity is a form of spontaneous materialism. awakening through experiential method
Has been seen to be evidence of.

Being crazy about rights to the point of delusion couldn't help but injure at least a few people.
It is basically famous in the sense of disturbing the rights. Some people to be harassed i.e. exploited
They also remain sitting ready for it to happen. Whether a human being is male or female, the body always remains in five stages during its journey.
It is countable only in category. In that order, the awakened human being is the divine human being, the awakened human being is the divine human being and
Human, unawakened animal, human and demon have been seen to be inhuman in the sense of human. vision in life itself,
Having temperaments and tendencies is studied by Gump and experienced in oneself, every person can experience
Could. Therefore, to verify the human being, to be verified from the human being, in the human being itself.
Complete verification has been observed to emerge. This verification expression counts in the sense of communication.
Existence is the state of natural matter, state of life and state of life in the sense of system with their respective “tva”
It is as bright as tradition.

Existence is easy, seer of all conditions, doer of activities full of humanity, easy than human.
Only human is the enjoyer of solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence. Experience Spontaneous Existence
The expression itself has been found to be this verification and validation method. This is the fundamental glory of human tradition
Is. For this to be accessible to all, it is very important to awaken the tradition. tenth of this twentieth century
For decades, the human beings on this earth have been living in various ways or in both the above ways, such as materialistic and
By misleading humans through idealistic methods, the face of the entire earth was spoiled. and in another way
Hung in assurance of heaven and salvation after death. Whereas the human body remains awake only during the journey.
Empirical proof, authenticity is the only solution for humans to find peace, prosperity, fearlessness,
Coexistence has been seen to be an easy joy. This awakening is a simple proof. ostentation is essentially delusional


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 9

This has been seen to happen. The throne of power and the throne of religion nourish the entire illusion. Its source education-
There is a cushion. Thus, it is necessary to awaken the throne of education. As a result of this, human religion itself remains intact.
In the sense of society, it is always appropriate to be assured and confident in, for and for all human beings. complete with
The communities that call themselves societies will definitely merge. second family based self rule system
The concept of many states will be destroyed through simple method. In this way the integrity of the earth within itself
The auspicious direction of complete recovery will be paved. Along with this, the desired moderation in the human race,
A healthy mentality of human unit including pollution-free technology, seasonal balance, population control, etc.
It will continue to occur naturally in the upper surface of the earth. co-exist with him forever
For passing from generation to generation, solutions, prosperity, fearlessness, art of co-existence, thinking style, experience
Will be full of strength. This is clearly understood to be the form of rich human tradition.

This understanding has become evident through the empirical method of existence. This is essentially existential anthropocentric
It is an expression of thought.

The form of education through experiential method is self-inflicted knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, humanitarianism.
The undertaking of imparting education and values ​​through simple methods of conduct, knowledge and understanding has been seen to be easy. serve it
It is possible to make it accessible. This fact has also been considered. Such education and culture should be considered as humane education.
It has been named Sanskar. This source of education is coexistence. This has been verified.
There is routine in existence, not governance. Considering governance as a system leads both the previous ideologies to go astray.
Has been a point of. The second main point has been inability or hindrance in understanding existence or
Have been suffering from delusions. For these reasons, both types of ideologies have the existence of innate reality, reality,
Have been deprived of experiencing truth in the form of situational truth, objective truth, objective truth or
It was experienced but it has not been possible to prove it in expression and communication. While we exist
After the experience, there was no hindrance in expression, communication and publication. Now this survey also,
It is appropriate at the time of inspection and testing that this communication should be done as a necessity for, from, to, in the human race.
Will it be known or not? We have full faith in this - the human experience of existence in, through, and for is one
In such a situation where it is accepted as a necessity, these expressions and communications are made in a natural form.
It will pave the way for co-existence in a comprehensible, heartfelt way because existence itself is in the form of co-existence.
Is always present in me.


<newpage>

20 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Till this decade, the rights of justice, the rights of oppression, the rights of capital, the rights of the earth, the rights of human beings,
Rights on living beings, rights on forests, rights on minerals, rights on technology, trade rights,
Discussion of state rights, rights on sea and sky, religious rights and rights on intellectual properties,
Attention was also paid to the limits and boundaries of rights. Regarding all these issues many
A joint conference of communities or all communities or community representatives, after deliberating
The decisions were accepted after deliberations. Now all such acceptances are in the form of glorious documents.
Are considered in. The meaning of a glorified document is that its approvals are being tampered with.
Acceptances are meant to learn scary lessons. Or is this considered decorum? all this like this
The basic meaning of the fundamental documents is that everyone can live peacefully in their respective countries with the same mentality.
An agreement is reached on everything. Whereas according to any previous thinking,
There is no definition, presentation,
His explanation could not be communicated. Also, the desire for happiness and peace is found in every human being.

The agreements made on the basis of accepted rights on the above issues also keep changing frequently. of this
At the same time, till the last decade of this century, it was also seen that the country which has the most military power
He has usurped someone's rights and accepted it as his own.
Has gone. Even before this century, such incidents were known to occur in the form of colonies.
Is. Thus no one with his strategic diplomatic (create conflict and rule) mentality
In the past too we have experimented with gaining authority over countries that are not our own. this state power
The mentality is basically to use the wealth of other countries for the convenience of one's own relatives, own tribes and indigenous people.
Attempts have been seen as kidnapping, exploitation and use in one's own country. ancient times
Since then, a state with strategic power has been considered a developed state and the people living in that country have been considered developed.
Being a tribe has been popularized as a recognition whereas war is neither the basis of development nor
There is no link, no process. Because this does not prove even a single formula, explanation or purpose of a united society.
Would happen Whereas the formula, interpretation and purpose of a united society is created through humane methods, systems and policies.
It is always appropriate. There is only one reason for being deprived of this, delusional mentality or fear, temptation,
It is the mentality that is affected by beliefs. All the minor wars and world wars that have taken place so far,
It has been completed on the above mentioned three grounds only. Therefore, humanistic method system can be developed only through empirical method.
It is ethical. Integrated society, universal system, humane education and culture, accessibility, justice and security.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 24

Accessibility, production-work accessibility, exchange-fund accessibility, health restraint accessibility as daily glory.
Being prosperous on this earth is easy, it is destiny, it is an inevitability. such a rich human tradition
It is natural for glory to end the rights mania of many states and communities. its conclusion
And the rise of humanity i.e. awakening is the fundamental transition and change in human tradition, from, to
Is.

Human race, human religion are one and the earth is one. On this basis, united society, universal system
It is easy to be glorious in human tradition. With this, along with the end of the state rights frenzy,
The confusion and frenzy of communal fanaticism versus sects and sects automatically goes away. unbroken
Due to being easy with social rules and being accessible to all, the formula of happiness and peace in human tradition is its own.
You start being effective. For happiness and peace called diverse religions or community religions
The meaning of the so-called sects is that all these cushions between the expectation and assurance of happiness and peace
Have kept yourself respectable. All human beings are capable of assessing their needs.
As a result, it is appropriate to have a system to remove all these confusions automatically.

Production accessibility means more than the needs of all the human beings living in the family.
Production work is easy and accessible in a family based self-rule system. With this method every family
Being rich remains easily expedient and easily accessible. At the same time, the exchange system based on labor value
It is always available to everyone. With this method it is easy to conduct profit-loss free exchange. as a result of profit
It is natural to be free from the pain caused by pride and loss.
To be the formula for solution, prosperity, peace and happiness and to have faith in the present along with access to justice.
Has been observed. This system did not become effective in the human race until the tenth decade of the twentieth century. This
This has also been experienced in the situation of autonomous production and the relationship between prosperity and work,
The proof of justice has become accessible to us through the method of value, evaluation and mutual satisfaction. now the exchange system
Till now, under the prevailing profit mania, we are talking about transactions like production and exchange on the basis of money.
But even while doing it, I experienced prosperity. Therefore it can be said that profit-loss free exchange
The system was seen to be the formula for peace in every family.

It is easy to become autonomous through the method of health-restraint awakening i.e. through the method of experience. Relationship-Value-Evaluation-
The ambivalent mindset is evidence of self and health solutions, coexistence, trust in the present,


<newpage>

22 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The family should ensure its continuity by participating in production work, justice and security more than the natural needs.
It is expedient to maintain a balanced body in every person as a form of autonomy.
The need of the body and its use to prove the awakening of life in human tradition,
It is necessary for every person to remain alert regarding its good use and purposes because the glory of experience
It is awakening. Due to this truth, autonomy can be achieved only through humanistic education and culture or through accessibility.
Being cultured automatically is found. Autonomous human being is a family human being, family is a human being intact.
Society, being the bearer of the universal system, the unbroken society, the universal system itself is present in the human being.
It is extremely fortunate to have a position and speed, as a result, human beings are easily blessed, life is naturally auspicious, every human being
In, from, for is certified.

Only through Jagriti method, the futility of rights over accumulation, facilities, capital becomes clear and the futility of rights over sky, minerals,
Imaginations about rights over forests, seas and land prove to be illusory. In this sequence, body trade, knowledge trade,
All efforts, processes, related to business of religion, business of ideas, business of human beings, business of intellectual property,
Every human being understands the futility of the result. This experience and awakening is simple glory. Such
The first evidence of awakening has been seen to be autonomous humans.

The proof of an autonomous human being is humane education and culture. Self-confidence in its glory,
Respect for excellence, balance between talent and personality and self-reliance in social and business behaviour.
Is. Only such autonomous humans are found to be certified as family humans. every family human
Recognition of relationships, fulfillment of values, evaluation and achieving mutual satisfaction are seen in reciprocity.
Family is a human family, adopted as per the natural need and supporting each other in production work.
Complementing, maintaining partnership, as a result the family produces more than what is naturally required.
Has been seen to happen. This is seen to be the formula for prosperity, solution and justice. Solution and prosperity in the family
Mutual satisfaction found on the basis of relationships was seen as easy to live in a just and fair system.
Is. In confirmation of these spontaneities, producing more than required proves prosperity. Arrangement
Living in the present is proof of the solution and faith in the present. Therefore the autonomous human form is experiential.
Has been seen to happen. As a result, family is destined to be human, society is human and system is human.
Sahaja Abhyudaya (all-round solution) and authenticity (experience and complete awakening) are meaningful in Sahaja Manav.
Has been seen to happen. On this basis, this “experiential spiritualism” is presented as a proposal for the public mind.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 23

Presented in. Being the unit of knowledge, human beings are capable of awakening and accepting all-round solutions.
It is only there. This is easily accessible only through the empirical method. It is only through such experiences and awakening that this earth
Human participation in keeping the environment safe has been accepted as an expectation.

The working form of confusion is Aatyaapti, Anayapti, Avyapti Dosh. That's overvaluation, undervaluation, devaluation
Can be seen in the form of actions. Its basic form (illusion) is bondage. bondage awakening within self
The order is. Before that is the biography sequence. Basically it is life itself. Life itself is a self-constituted atomic unit of consciousness.
Is. Life remains free from atomic weight and molecular bonds and functioning begins with the bond of hope.
Is. In life, powers like hope, thought, desire, Ritambhara and experience evidence and mind, instinct, mind, intellect etc.
And the force in the form of soul remains present continuously. Force and power remain indivisible. it
Nature is the glory manifested in every unit. Only formed atoms function as life.
What happened is understandable. Participation in all nuclear physical-chemical activities before formation is complete.
In subsistence, it is visible. Everything that is visible in the chemical and physical world
Compositions from many atoms to molecules, many molecules exist.

In the form of physical world, the state of matter and in the form of life state, the vegetable world and all living beings, bodies and
Human anatomy appears to be a chemical world. Here the meaning of the world in essence
That is, the purpose is to present the creations in form. Its proof is in the physical-chemical world.
Each of the units is in the form of a system with its own “essence”. Till the tenth decade of the twentieth century
Man with his “humanity” is waiting for the system to be established. Waiting Movement towards freedom from illusion
Or the direction indicates simple expectation. Being confused is indicative of the intensity of the bond. both these situations
While inhumanity remains prevalent in the world, waiting for awakening due to the pain of bondage or due to confusion and simple frustration.
Is seen to happen. Deeply confused person, community starts believing body to be life
Remains committed to. This life is the invaluable point of spontaneous experience and awakening. places of life
But considering the body as life is a testimony of deep confusion. It is because of this illusion that humans are as delusional as they are.
All the activities he is able to do result in problems. Like, science is important in the world.
Achievements in the form of telecommunication and second in the form of speed in production work are evidenced by instruments.
presented. Despite being achievements in itself, due to lack of awakening, experience and tradition in human beings


<newpage>

24 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Instead of their use, proper use and usefulness, they became a means of convenience, enjoyment and overindulgence.

Is.

Bondages are seen in the form of hope, thought and desire. Hopes, thoughts and desires remain active in life itself.
Are. Fulfillment of hopes, fulfillment of thoughts and fulfillment of desires is the form of bondage. all illusionary hopes, thoughts, desires
To supply bodily functions, bodily comforts and bodily pleasures. freedom of action in humans
Mechanism became proven in the form of scientific achievements. Instead of using these devices properly
Wastage has been seen as an obligation and a necessity in human tradition. of this
As a result, the healthy posture of the earth has transformed into an unhealthy posture. as well as all
Operating the human body in the human tradition with hopes for awakening through life experiential method
The life hope or expectation of all those who are ready to do so gets destroyed. its origin
Confused human tradition is the main factor. In this way wandering life satisfaction comes naturally
Indulgence mentality into justice mentality, collection mentality into prosperity mentality, struggle mentality
In the form of solution mentality, in the form of rebellion mentality in the form of complementary mentality, in the form of patience in rebellion mentality.
mentality, exploitation mentality, regulation mentality, war mentality, coexistence
In mentality, governance mentality, universal system mentality, community mentality in integrity
It is an easy possibility to enter into social mentality through empirical method. It is constantly expedient.
This is what is meant by “experiential spiritualism” (idealism). Whose ideal is it, that of a confused human being?

Because all the turning points mentioned above are positive, life is easily accepted. all this
There is glory derived from rules, control, balance, justice, religion and truth. The position of visionary and prestige lies in life itself.
Not in the body. This fact has already been pointed out. Hence “Experiential Spiritualism” Introduction
The necessity originates from the law itself.

Life becomes easy only through experiential method, all activities like experience and perception according to authenticity.
And thinking and drawing in accordance with the understanding and resolution obtained through the empirical method, such thinking
And there is comparison and analysis and taste selection according to the illustration. This is the meaning of the set of experiences.
Is. Through experiential method, body operation method includes the system itself, participation in the overall system.
Certifies. Every human wants order. For such a system, tradition itself is empirical.
It is essential to have an easy proof of awakening through the method. In this sequence, life and body are combined together.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 25

Every human being is certified/evaluated as a living human being. Vitality in the body i.e. senses
Activity was seen to be the splendor of life itself, life itself was seen to be experienced in existence.
Is. In the experiential order, waking life activities were considered to be natural. climate, including forests
The face of the earth has deteriorated, which has been well understood by the brilliant minds of the scientific world.
Empirical methods, systems and policies will have to be adopted in human tradition, only then the earth will be blessed with prosperity.
To improve the postures means that the earth should again be able to maintain the status quo with its prosperity.
Will get. The proof of human natural improvement and its status quo is the empirical system. meaning of illusion
Have to remain spoiled. The entire human race was forced to commit complete mistakes and crimes due to freedom of action.
Is. As if humans are the only entity that can invite the destruction of the earth along with self-destruction.

Apart from humans, no one is seen doing this type of enterprise in the entire nature.
Apart from this, the entire nature appears to be glorious with its own “tva” and its system. corresponding evidence
On the basis of human use of his freedom of action and imagination with discretion,
Knowing, accepting, recognizing and fulfilling the purpose has become a necessity. What does it mean
This means that humans must improve, otherwise the human and plant world along with humans would remain vibrant and alive.
What has happened will not be visible on this earth, this is the dire consequence of the deterioration of the face of the earth.

The main reason for distorting the face of the earth is man's misuse of freedom of action. "Who
According to the principle of “whoever wastes, he will be deprived of it” because of the wastage of the earth.
It has become the reason for human beings to be deprived of this blessed earth. therefore necessary
Complete transformation i.e. experience and awakening, complete dimension, angle, direction, perspective and space-time.
Adopting the empirical method as a tradition would be a happy, beautiful and fulfilling solution. For this
Awakened human tradition is the only solution. Awakening of innate rights in all human beings, from, to, for, equal
Has been seen to happen. At its core, every life's creation, power, strength and goal are the same.
Is. This has been well understood.

“Illusion is bondage and freedom from bondage is the awakening of life.” Every human being is eager for the awakening of life.
And remains troubled. It has been seen empirically that human life-expectation is successful. Confusion

Due to bondage, one wanders in disgust like a collection facility and after the journey of the body, one attains heaven and salvation.
Being obsessed with assurance has been seen. In both these situations, the need for humanity and the need for life are not proved.


<newpage>

26 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Can happen. The observed fact is that in case of success in life, human need and human need
In case of success, life-expectation becomes successful. Thus the balance of life and human expectation
The point has been understood. Due to these realities, it is a necessity to adopt the empirical method as human tradition.
Is. Therefore, in the form of a proposal, this “experiential spiritualism” is offered to the lotus feet of human beings.

Be victorious ! Have a nice one!! Good luck!!!

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 7

Chapter - 3

The innate authenticity of experience is the same for all human beings.

In the earlier chapters of this book, this fact and incident has been explained that ever since humans have been on this earth.
From then until the tenth decade of the twentieth century, as individuals, as families, as communities,
Whatever I was able to do and think as a result of which the results are visible in today's situation.
He is getting that he has been made to heart in various ways - () Whatever he could think of which
Most of the people or most of the people of the community have been religiously believing. that mysterious
Spiritualist ideas, mystical supradivine ideas and mysterious metaphysical ideas versus idealism and
(2) There is instability and uncertainty based objectivism versus materialism.

In this way, the human race is able to maintain its momentum despite fear, temptation, and religious thoughts.
Kept doing. In the original formulation of the first idea, everything arises from God. Main facts in this are in the eyes
Visible objects were called Maya. According to the second idea, divinity became secondary, things became primary.
Went. In the original objectivist rendering, it was said that consciousness arises from objects. with its formulation
Added. It was said that consciousness arises according to creation. This is the basic formulation of materialism.
Various creations were seen in front of humans. Along with this, vehicles carrying bodies and goods
Vehicles, speech, visual instruments and equipment were presented before humans. common people towards
Also added faith. That's why it got most people's attention and was accepted. along with this
Equipments helpful in production work were manufactured. Things worked based on their design.
lives. Tried, tried, to recognize the entire creation as a device. to some
Could accept, some could not accept. As far as the creation of matter is concerned, it is through their use that
Most or all machines were manufactured. Every machine kept running with the help of fuel. statement of science
It works as per its composition whereas no machine works without fuel combination. Vegetation
And considering the body as a mechanical structure, ultimately the entire structure on the basis of bones, the entire organism.
Considering the body as the entire human body, the essence (human element) is considered to be present in one of the bones.


<newpage>

28 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Have been searching. At the same time, considering the results of experiment after experiment as the final truth, at an unhindered pace
Experiments are kept elevated.

The review of both of these is that consciousness from matter and consciousness from matter were not proved till this decade.
Unstoppable pace of experiments of devotion and detachment, in both these sequences there is no way for the truth to become easily accessible.
Happened. Objectivists consider instruments as evidence; Idealists have been considering ideal persons as proof. Ideal
The background of identity of individuals is devotion and aversion. Laboratory is the background for accepting mechanical evidence.
- That too is mechanization itself. Ideal persons have been named as 'Aapt Purush', proof of their words.
It is assumed. Whereas in the objective method, instruments were considered as evidence, experiments and rules were considered as evidence.
And idealists respected the individual.

Both these types of humans have become famous in large numbers on this earth. Being famous means a lot of things
People have come to know. Famous people from both the genres are still seen even in this decade. This 
We have been seeing this for half a century.

It is only with the inspiration of these two types of sages that all the common people of this earth work and behave-
Have been thinking. The result of this is that in today's situation i.e. in the tenth decade of the twentieth century, human-
Conflict with humans, suffering, crisis, disease, increasing population due to distorted environment in the form of pollution,
Unemployment, disproportionate accumulation of facilities, need of more currency every day for tomorrow, sources
depletion, deterioration of the face of the earth, water crisis, general facilities for all people across the country.
Not being accessible, increasing proportion of exploitation, exploitation of humans, destruction of natural resources
Exploitation, deteriorating environment and the possibility of deterioration are increasing. As a result, in a variety of ways
Everyone remains frustrated.

The irony of education is that science is influenced by genre, by specialization. expertise in any discipline
In part, he is found to be working in an attempt to establish himself. Again its share and its
The rise of efforts is being seen in the form of shares. As a result, specialization is purposeless black-
Have appeared in front of the wall in all genres. Like - Black Wall of Quantitative Instability-Uncertainty
Is in front of. Its experts have been seen to be indifferent in their evaluation. Second hereditary science
This is to be in front of a black wall, being totally unable to analyze and analyze the human being.
seen. Third relativism is described by experts as describing their imagination with unknown phenomena.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 29

Has been seen. Energy required for these three modes or to recognize these modes
Has been accepted in the world of science. They start calling themselves motion energy, such as magnetic current.
Converting this motion into electrical motion and moving in this motion mode is called wave.
Experiments are still being conducted to reveal the fact whether such a wave is an object or non-object. Who
Experiments keep paving the way for experiments without considering the results that come as the final truth. This
There is uncertainty in the genre - whether it is an object or an object.

Due to this state of uncertainty, humans have become frustrated about whether they understand themselves or not.
Are. Due to these principles being branches and branches, there is a need to review them separately.
Not there. Therefore, all the human beings engaged in the world of science are trying to verify themselves as intelligent.
Unable because the cycle of expertise runs from the beginning of the idea to the black wall. On the other end
Called experts in the art aspect of education, the stereotypes that have developed in diverse communities like marriage, marriage,
The methods of dancing, singing and celebrating festivals are considered culture and taught in the name of sociology.
They do not believe in what the experts teach. different from him, different with different habits
Seem to be maintaining the mentality. Lastly, the present society is a struggling human community.
The basis of conflict is mental differences between individuals, criticism, intoxicants, dances and songs.
Diversity is seen in the form of competition. Similarly, sports, speech-competitions-competitions
The tradition of identifying on the basis of is still there. Facing difficulties like competition, opposition and hatred
The incident has been observed to occur. There is a conflict between religion and state and also in the artistic education system.
Is countable. This is the review of the blackness of uncertainty and instability on the basis of mechanical evidence from the science genre.
Undesirable black walls or approvals like opposition, rebellion and hatred from the wall and artistic education genre.
It became the basis for confusing human tradition. The right path despite all the efforts
Not paved. Therefore, empirical behavioral evidence remained essential for the proposal. Therefore
Now it has become possible to be proposed and accepted by humans.

This proposal is basically presented on the basis of equality. There is evidence of equality, certainty and stability.

To study the forms of stability and certainty (1) Existence (2) Development in the atom
(3) Atom is the basis of system (4) System in coexistence (5) System formula (system including “Tva”)
(6) Complementation-sublimation, composition-deconstruction (7) Complementation-sublimation and transition (8) Atom itself


<newpage>

30 Intermediate Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

To be fully formed and glorious in the stage of life (Chaitanya stage) (9) Biography sequence in life (0) With bondage
The program of life and the sequence of awakening () Life itself transitions from awakening to activity (2) Life
The transition from awareness to conduct is the main point.

None of these points can be proved by mechanical evidence, although every human being can understand it.
And can prove in practice. On the basis of idealism, the basis of which are the words of such men
But none of these twelve points can be studied, understood or proven.

Therefore, through empirically awakened method, evidence of human behavior in all directions, angles, perspectives and dimensions.
Overall very necessary. It is inevitable to prove experience in practice and in every experiment
It is equally essential to be meaningful. Thus, the empirical awakening method is based on complete evidence sources.
Meaning as “object” indicated by communication and speech styles based on ideas and thought formulas-
Behavior, production, behavior-justice, behavior and judicial exchange as meaningfulness of purposes,
There is a need for practical health-control and practical education-sanskar tradition. and its supply
It is natural that the human tradition on this earth through the millennia from the generations ahead has been filled with innate splendor and
Its significance can be proved by the awareness and system. It is easy for every person
Can be accessible. The art of living meaningfully i.e. the awakening of every way of living in accordance with the Jagritisutra.
It is possible to be evaluated. The expectation of awakening and proving humanity is present in every human being.

To be certified as a human being, one must have human nature like patience, bravery, generosity, mercy, kindness,
Compassion with a natural method of love for one's son, love for the world and love for the world and a tendency to become certified with awareness
Presenting justice, religion and truth in the form of authenticity is the nature of a humane human being.
In the second way, autonomous human being, family human being and united society, participation in the universal system.
Doing this in position, in motion, to see the grandeur of humanity as an unbroken, universal, intact prestige.
gets to. In the third method, the humane human being is defined to prove its innate significance.
Going to do. This has to be proved in the form of solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence because human
Definition: “The one who realizes the negative, the optimist of mental health and the one who proves it.”
Is." That's why social in practice, resulting in all-round solutions, self-reliance in business, the proof of which
The family is found to be prosperous by producing more than what is naturally required. In this way every family


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 34

Solution, being prosperously certified is a proof of humanity. It is important for every family to live in this manner.
Is universalization. This is a united society and universal system.

“Humanity” is the desired wisdom, thought, enlightenment, address, conduct, behaviour, in all human beings, in all countries, at all times.
There is participation in the system.

The meaningful form of wisdom is the combined form of “knowledge of life” and “knowledge of existence”. life instincts
Co-existence has been found to exist naturally because of the infinite nature contained in the all-pervading existence.
It is ever present in the form of coexistence. Power itself is comprehensive, transparent, transcendent, and complete in status.
There seems to be constant splendor without any pressure or pressure. Between every two units, in reciprocity,
Power is visible everywhere. Every place without an object is a form of existence. of this constant evidence
It is clear that everything is based on power. By virtue of being in power, everything is immersed in power, drenched,
Looks surrounded. The object that appears like this has activity present in a spontaneous manner.
Activity is seen in the form of speed, pressure and impact. Nature itself is in power in another way
Situation-motion, pressure in mutuality, wave-like exchange, natural way of complementation, sublimation, creation-
It is seen to be in the form of deconstruction. And development in the atom, completeness in the atom, post-consciousness
A transition in life, position and prestige has been observed. In this way life term and life and chemical-
For physical terms, it makes sense for atoms to be the basic element.

The atom is seen as the basic element of the system in the inanimate-conscious nature, which is imbued with power. Whereas
Existence itself is the complete expression or manifestation. Here basically it is necessary to keep in mind the fact that power
Nature is indivisible. This indivisibility is continuous. That is why nature, imbued with power, is ever present.
It is only there. Existence itself is not divided into parts, that is why it is understood that existence is unbroken and intact.
The main experience is that the nature integrated in the being is visible in an infinite form. All these are divided into different parts.
They are seen in power only in form. It is precisely seen that the system is divided into
No. Existence itself is the form of system.

All the research, experimentation and
The review of all the guesses that have been made is limited to the fact that one thing has been disintegrated and ignored.
Can't go. This is also clear from mathematical methods. process of division into multiples by mathematical method
Is.


<newpage>

32 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Originality versus existence is always present. Due to the natural nature of existence itself
And it is clear that the system itself is a daily thing, it is eternal. This is the main issue. every human wants to understand this
And we can explain. Because existence itself is present, life is easy for every human being.
Existence remains accepted versus the system remains accepted. Existence only by this concise method
Spontaneous acceptance is surveyed and through verificationist survey method every human system is found to be otherwise
Is. Also, in this decade, when the body traveling human being was asked what do you think about the system?
Do you know? The answer is negative. Ultimately, uncertainty and instability enter into the public mind.
It has come as soon as it is done. Due to instability, uncertainty, humans become anxious, for convenience accumulation and
Suffering has also been seen.

Whether experience occurs in life or in the body is the main point - this fact has been known - life itself
Keeps the body alive. The living body itself is powered by life. In order to confirm this fact
How is the body itself? Man has been observing since ancient times how things are created and created.
Is. Main issue - Development, complementarity, completeness, transition in atom. Understand these facts properly.
Have done. Therefore, it is necessary for every person to understand this. conscious nature, inanimate nature, this nature
is the set. Inanimate nature is composed of chemical-physical objects and substances. It is about creation and destruction
The source is the earth itself. The earth itself is also a creation. As long as there is development on this earth,
Till now there is no doubt about its healthiness. System of development and its continuity, existence naturally
exists in. The entire structure and composition of matter and life state is based on the result and seed.
Being prompt is seen as a tradition. On this basis, the formula for feeling in every human existence
are attached.

System of spontaneous complete awakening of life through human body, necessity of existence as natural form
Because existence is stable, development and awakening are certain. prove awakening
It is a necessity of life. Awakening is happiness, peace, contentment, joy. It has been seen in a good way. its life
There is natural continuity because life is continuous. Life is destined to be spontaneous awakening intact. such awakening
And the thirst for intact awakening is inherent in every person. Therefore, the Jeevan Jagruti system has been introduced in the tradition
Adoption is a necessity.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 33

Life itself is depicted, analyzed, compared, selected including experience, perception, reflection (interview)
And taste is natural, judicial, satisfactory and authenticity, easy expression, communication,
Publishing has been seen to be a smooth process. This is the need for “experiential spiritualism”,
It became the basis for identifying and expressing utility, utility and purposefulness.

Basically, at the core of this research has been distrust towards conventions, distrust towards fundamentalism. abstract form
In the Vedanta form, there was doubt about whatever material is available on “moksha and bondage”. as a result
Whatever advice is given for Nididhyasana, Samadhi, Mano Nirodh, Drishta Vidhi, try and do it on the basis of the same.
Practiced. After attaining the thoughtless state, the tradition known as Samadhi, Nididhyasana, Purna Bodhi
Whatever name Nirvana has taken, the answer to the basic doubt could not be found in this very place. As a result of this
Be prepared for the option. In accordance with the preceding gestures there was a sound of “restraint”. control that sound
Readiness was created in. Exercised restraint in the sky (shujya). acceptance/realization of existence in a thoughtless state
Everything everywhere, including everything, appeared to be contained in the sky, hence there was a need to control the sky.
There was urgency. Only after some time, existence was seen as it was in the form of coexistence. Existence
'Life' was seen only in me. Awakened by experiencing existence. existence after such experience
Every person was seen to be capable of experiencing only through the Sahaj method. Experiencing the object as 'life'
seen. On this basis, the true intuitive trend emerged in presenting “experiential spiritualism”.
Hui. This is presented before the human being.

In this and on another part, the aspirants may be curious, you can practice on the basis of the previous methods-
You have overcome the rules, why are you making all those rules invisible to everyone? of those practices
Why are you not submitting a counter proposal? In the answer, this same behavior is accessible through experience method. by awakening method
To be certified in humane education, humane system through awakened tradition, awakened tradition method, for this
Being proficient in essential behavioral tasks was seen and understood as the glory of being an awakened tradition.
Lived as proof. It was proved to be accurate or its accuracy was proved i.e. experience
The accuracy of the tradition was proved. The need existed since the distant past. Therefore the practice which
Even after following the tradition and reaching the place of Samadhi, even after reaching the state of bliss, there is all the auspiciousness.
The path has not been paved, for samadhi or for becoming aware for a state of disorder, truth
To have an interview, to have a self-realization, to have a divine realization, to be awakened by chance.


<newpage>

34 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

For (touching the awakened person) also, traditions are followed in their own way, with variations in all of them.
The goal of Samadhi has been stated. Offering my gratitude to all those traditions, (because
I have got help from him) the knowledge, philosophy, conduct, system, to be established in the best human tradition,
It has been considered necessary to establish the flow of education. The reason for this is Mediator Philosophy (Coexistenceism)
There has always been a need to present the “experiential spiritualism” that is part of the society. it
The credit for getting the opportunity is the result of human tradition and our tireless efforts. Therefore the past
Thank you, present proposal and all the best plans for the future are presented.

Here it is also being presented as a reminder that even after 'Samadhi', all the auspicious programs, its origin
It may not be possible to reveal the style of thought, the philosophy at its core, the knowledge of the bearer of all this.
Finds. Only the practice of silence and the most silent state up to samadhi and samadhi have been observed.
Because in a thoughtless state there is no sense of body, place and time. There is definitely a sense of self-pleasure in this.
The assurance is fulfilled. In that situation, if speaking is possible i.e. 0 hour, 5 hour, 20 hour after Samadhi
After speaking in a state of being aware of the body, space and time, whatever the mystic says, it sounds like this.
Whatever has been written in Vajgamaya can be repeated and only good wishes can be made. mausoleum
For this, it is said that whatever sadhana and practice one person has done, everyone should do the same. with this
It has also been seen that whether every person will be able to achieve Samadhi in the same body journey or not, it is not certain.
It is not possible to do. The root cause of this uncertainty has been identified as the fact that life is a continuous process.
Is action. Powers like hope, thought, desire, Ritambhara, Pramaan always remain through the body after experience.
Has been seen publishing itself from. Silent method practice is a completely anti-life system.
Life activities never end in nature. Life is eternal, the body is a medium for the manifestation of life.
The event remains expedient. about anatomy being formed in utero by hereditary method
seen. That is why variations in size, type, color and form have been observed in the body. in the making of life
The conformational integrity of atoms has been observed to be the same.

Life composition similarity means that all the parts necessary for life activity are similar in atomic formation.
It is necessary to see equality in the life structure as a result of all that being included in it.
It has been understood. Understanding of common activities in life through study of power and force.
And there is determination. Every person should be fully aware of his “self” life activity through study.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 35

At that very moment, it is determined that life activities are found to be similar in all lives.
Life force and strength are also inexhaustible as soon as we understand the process of life and its integrity.
There is a sense of its integrity. The concept becomes stronger. Due to this fact, life forces and
Inexhaustibility of forces, no matter how many uses, good uses and useful methods are employed.
Life force and strength are also felt to remain intact within oneself. To feel is to be awake
Has to happen. It is natural to experience existence along with life knowledge. life becomes easier as a result
Awakening is known to be the same as human innate life goals. Thus life goals, life forces,
Life force, life's spontaneous activities and life's creation are experienced to be the same in every life.
As a result, it is natural to believe and experience coexistence. As a result, in all good, from, for
Living becomes a natural process. This was found to be the basic formula of universal system and united society.
It is not the diversity of body composition.

Only through the method of awakened life, in human tradition, as evidenced by experience and through meaningful methods in practice.
Is certified. This experiential awakening is the art of living easily, its glory.

Two poles in existence have been clarified earlier – existence is stable, development and awakening are certain. these two
Human consciousness and behavior have been seen between the poles because human tradition has existed
The present is indivisible. Therefore, human beings can live their lives with ease, awakening, satisfaction and prosperity.
is found to be.

Experience in existence is the ultimate proof of awakening. This is meaningful in practice and tradition has a simple purpose.
Is found to be meaningful. Tradition and spontaneous awakening have been seen to be the formula and source of all good.

Tradition in itself is a formula passed from generation to generation - whether it is through community law or through a united society.
yes. It is clear that united society is a sign of law awakening and community law is a sign of confusion. community
It is not possible for humans to become autonomous through law, dependence remains. Human only by means of undivided society
In this tradition, autonomy is accomplished through education and culture. Proof of this i.e. proof of autonomy
Being seen in the family. The principle of coexistence in a family proves the autonomy of humans.
Tradition is needed for it to become prevalent. To be universally accessible from another language or
Tradition is needed for popularization to take place.


<newpage>

36 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Traditions are easy to exist. Existence itself, co-existence, is the eternal formula of tradition. coexistence
The self is continual development and tradition. Thus it has been seen that atoms have the tradition of their species.
The number of atomic fragments in an atom and its composition are easily revealed. polyatomic
Coexistence of other species in molecular composition, atomic number contained in it and number of fragments in atoms.
Including molecular species is clear to be as a matter of tradition. There are many molecular species in molecular structures and
It is on the basis of the ratio of molecules that chemical-physical compositions are seen taking place.
In this sequence, the state of matter, the state of life in the form of inanimate nature, the state of life and the state of knowledge in the form of conscious nature.
Coexistence in form is revealed in a natural way. Coexistence of life and body in conscious nature
Is seen. Life itself is a unit of consciousness infected in the form of completeness. This is conscious nature. Life
The body tradition itself, alive with life in another language, is the body tradition itself, the combined form of inanimate-conscious nature.
It is found to be countable. Due to the continuous effect of co-existence in existence, the inanimate-conscious nature
Coexistence is easy. Life's innate desire (seen in the form of hope, thought, desire)
The hope of living, the opulence of life, the desire to live in coexistence because of one's glory.
Presenting evidence has been seen to be an activity of conscious nature.

In coexistence, experience is the ultimate truth revelation and existence itself is coexistence. resulting reciprocity
Identification and subsistence are simple methods. In this sequence, the existence of conscious nature is also easy. atomic composition work and
The result is also seamless coexistence. Because every atom was found to contain more than one atomic fragment.
goes. It is these atomic fragments that self-spontaneously illuminate atomic formation and specific functions.
Are. Atomic particles are also ready to perform specific tasks with each other. human intervention
In a free state there are no obstacles. The process of exchange of particles in an atom which takes place
That too is according to the coexistence method formula. Coexistence is a system of self-spontaneous manifestation.
In this way, the archetype of the entire nature is the source of order and system in the form of an atom full of balanced energy.
Is visible. With the readiness to manifest as such self-spontaneous atomic fraction arrangement
Atomic creation-formation process can be seen taking place. On the basis of this action, labour, motion,
The result is published. Therefore, in the order of satisfaction of these, there is development in the sense of satisfaction, development and awakening.
Is published and expressed.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 37

The proof of certainty of awakening in existence is the expression of the state of knowledge. In the state of knowledge only human beings are counted
Is. Human tradition finds satisfaction in the combined form of cognition and sensitivity. of knowledge
The basic form of knowledge of life and existence is the knowledge of the system of natural coexistence. life knowledge human
Believing is possible on the basis of spontaneous activities in one's own life. It's basically a simple experience.
Is action. It is a necessity to know and accept this. Anatomy in order to understand life
And being well versed in the context of body limitations is a necessity. of life and body
It is only on the basis of the illumination of the state of knowledge in the combined form that human beings can naturally (4) attain their own
Imagination and freedom of action are experienced as waves separate from the body. (2) Hope, thought,
Desires, life being a spontaneous activity, can be examined by itself, for itself. (3)
The sensations that appear or appear through the study method of tasting, comparison, contemplation and understanding.
It is appropriate to test it for every human being, in every time, in every country. these activities
Observation of this shows that the experience of taste in a living human being is Bhasa; justice, religion, daily routine of truth
Having a feeling about the thing, every person can decide for himself. Justice, religion and truth are realized only in thinking.
Being and feeling are proved.

Self-realization, along with determination of purposes, identifies the study method as a source for satisfaction.
Is. As a result, justice, religion, truth and easy acceptance along with meaningfulness in conscious experience is the sanskar and
Experience in the form of perception gets established in the intellect in the form of indivisible action in life. this study
It is an amazing achievement to be made. Justice, spontaneous interview, coexistence, including interview of spontaneous relationships.
Values ​​are found to be in conflict. This is the main point. Coexistence in recognizing natural relationships
The illusion that remains is the proof of bondage. This is the phenomenon of considering life as a body.

It is a necessity to test the bond in life. The source of bondage is from confused life activity.
Only this remains expedient. This is in the form of views on love, interest, profit etc., subject-oriented tendencies and humility, inferiority,
It is published with a brutalist mentality. It would be obvious that such activities would remain confused throughout life.
Is. Accepting oneself as confused in life does not happen, the desire to be dependent remains in life. This only
A formula for freedom from illusion is formed. Therefore, all the activities that the illusionists keep spreading
Uselessness is assessed and efforts are made for significance. This awakening will happen in sequence
Coexistence is a simple and glorious task.


<newpage>

38 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Human consciousness is the natural state of knowledge of nature and tradition. The state of knowledge itself expresses this very thing.
Does. Knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, conduct full of humanity, prosperity in knowledge is the sound of knowledge.
Has meaning and significance. It is also seen that every human wants to be fearless and awakened.
Is. Awakening of unity and integrity is a natural expression. Seeing fragmentation, being forced into diversity due to illusion
Has received. We find uniformity in the supreme knowledge, philosophy, conduct and system of justice, religion and truth. This 
It has been named as united society, universal system. unity universal system happens naturally
Is. Integrity is achieved through rules and justice. It should be clear that society and system are inseparable
Have finished. Only by the method of coexistence in existence can humans become glorious as an awakened tradition.
In the awakened human tradition, the daily proof of complete grandeur, solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence is the easy proof.
This is the current tradition. This awakening is the result of spontaneous tradition.

Recognizing and living together is an eternal rule. Complementing with utility is the eternal rule. complementation
It is meant to be a motivational supplement with evidence in development and awakening. Self-powers in development and awakening
Offering is dedication. Complementarity in inanimate nature occurs by spontaneously replacing a part of one or the other.
It is only in the form of giving. There are ways for humans to prosper in a resolved way. this root again
It is also seen in the creation and deconstruction in nature that there is complementarity in the method of creation, the creations lead to re-creation.
It is seen to be presented as a form of complementation. This type of complementarity is also seen in inanimate nature.
Is. The evidence of this fact is that the state of matter is mutually complementary, the state of life is from the state of life and the state of life is
Since we have to remain present in a developed state of knowledge. All living beings are hereditary only with the hope of survival
Being prompt in work is found. No matter how much the human being in the state of knowledge tries to follow him,
Activities adopted include masochism, self-exploitation, deprivation of self and others.
Deceit and the essence of it all is to have trouble with oneself and suffer from its pain, to others.
To continue to suffer. This was seen in communities in the form of confused human traditions. This education, values,
The constitution and system are being followed till this decade. All this is problematic. the problem is the pain itself
Was seen to be affected in form. The solution to this is awakening, its true solution.

There is always a need for evidence through human innate method through these three types of experience, behavior and experiment.
remains the same. This is constantly seen in the human race in situations of expectations, efforts and proofs.
Is. There has been an expectation of a solution since time immemorial. In the last three decades of this century, human


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 39

Solution: Spontaneous expectation became stronger. It started with the voice of human rights. pain from expectation
Evidence of reaching was seen. Human rights, as per one's own views, are given to every individual as normal.
There should be access to facilities, there should be help and protection in disasters like earthquake, excessive rain, drought,
Relief should be provided to the people suffering from famine. Shut down many penal systems as punishment
Should do. The penal system should be improved. War mentality should be changed. all these sounds
Is seen to be as. In practice, as per the requirement till the tenth decade of the twentieth century
Medicine in case of illness, food-clothes-safe place in case of disaster, all these are mainly needed for help.
The work of making the meaning accessible was seen to be done. Although every throne in the distant past has been beset by calamities
The fund and its activities have been maintained in the interest of providing relief to the affected people. Let us ask what is new in these
So - the only difference is that all the help from the royal court was due to the blessings of the king. human rights organization
The change in this mode is presented in a spontaneous manner. Evaluation of their activities, duties, responsibilities
Is evaluated as. Therefore, he is considered to be the bearer and bearer of human rights ideas among humans.
It has been said that such an organization has been run only after the distressed person has suffered. In-spite of this
In this, the auspicious part i.e. the helping part is the only meaningful one.

All the experiments are found to be on the positive side in the form of production experiments and pharmaceutical experiments.
The positive aspect means being formulated in the sense of daily solutions. such daily solutions are awakening
It is clear that universalization is auspicious in human tradition itself. All the plans created by illusion through awakening full method
Activity is found in the meaning of solution is to change.

It has been made clear that the production items are used for general aspiration and ambition. in these genres
Every medicine and production experiment gets proven in practice. to prove practical
The form is the evidence of the use, good use and usefulness of both these genres.

War, exploitation and their effects merge or disappear because exploitation and war create hysteria and confusion.
Activity has been proven to take place. Experience proves that every person has the luxury of being equal.
The solution is proven in practice. The glory of experience is the all-round solution. of solution
The meaning itself is the answer to why and how. Loyalty and its integrity in such an answer. hence practical use
And the dignity of being proven by experience is the form of a universal system and a united society.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

40 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter 4

The soul is inseparable from life

The form of “life” is a simple atom in the function of evolution and consciousness, which binds weight and
Is free from molecular bonding. This is called 'life'. To be free from the bondage of illusion is salvation.
Awakening is an easy proof.

In life, mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul are active in an inseparable manner. These are all definite actions
The name is. In the form of 'object' there is an active unit in the form of four environments including Madhyamsha. Thus “Life!
A life of reflection and reflection, with wisdom in the human tradition, with the status of consciousness in oneself.
Keeps publishing spontaneous actions. This is awakening.

The basic element of the system has been found to exist only in atoms. Nature is the root of power.
Is glorious in the form of Chaitanya. Of these, as a result of inanimate nature, mass binding and molecular binding, physical-
It is seen taking part in chemical compositions. Every inanimate atom in itself
The system and composition present evidence of participation in a seamless overall system. While conscious units
Free from weight bondage and molecular bondage, full of hope, with the “path of work and movement as per hope” and the mental energy.
The ratio is found to remain dynamic. “Life” after its formation is an inexhaustible power, inexhaustible.
It has been seen that he is full of strength. This is a function of the reputation of “immortality of results”.

The tradition of “biography order” started from the bondage of hope, life from hope, and desire from thought.
Presents human activities in a very confusing manner. Desires illustration work, thought analysis
In the human tradition of fear, temptation and faith, while performing the task and hope selection process.
Keeps living. Meaning of seduction through collection, convenience, enjoyment related to love, interest, profit; War, exploitation, treason-
Rebellion-struggle, all this fear and devotion-dispassion, renunciation of faith-dispassion were published by human beings.
Is. This tradition is found to happen only through spontaneous method. For this purpose in tradition, education, teachings,
The system of governance and the constitution have also been established. In this sequence, related to general aspiration and ambition and
A lot of illustration work was done in the form of strategic materials. Some such means of communication


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 4

And the bridge was depicted. Man has depicted many objects, materials and instruments related to this.
Is.

Biographical order is seen in living organisms in the form of hereditary acceptance. This is the hope of bondage
There is activity. In hereditary work, the activities of that particular lineage remain fixed. only then survival
Can be counted as a system. Organisms that exhibit hereditably determined behavior
Rich medhas are found in them. The human body is also established in such a hereditary order.
Its tradition can also be seen. The noteworthy point is that certain conduct is evident in human tradition.
Could not happen. The reason for this was that humans tried to live like living beings under all three types of bondages.
Whereas man remained inspired to live according to his original method. In this sequence, variety of behaviours,
Diversity of thoughts, diversity of desires, led to diversity. Therefore only hope, thought,
Humanity could not be established in humans through desire. Tireless efforts were definitely made. "Life! Of
And the use of dimensions is inevitable in human tradition only on the basis of empirical method.
Establishing has become a mandatory condition.

Mainly the functioning of the views like justice, religion and truth in the instinct and as a result their realization is realized in the mind.
In the intellect there is acceptance of understanding and experience, in the soul there is realization and realization of these experiences and realization.
It is clear that being accomplished in affirmative thinking is an empirically awakened state. so life
To study and understand the philosophy of co-existence mediated through the method of methodical consciousness development and value education.
Life means knowledge. Being the observer of life itself, existence is easy to be the observer of the entire scene.
It is easy. The thing to be experienced in this way is life. Experiential object existence innate
There is coexistence. The subject to be certified is every human being. object to be certified united society
And there is a universal system. Existence is experienced in simple coexistence, only experience is experienced in the ultimate truth.

Creation of life (Chaitanya Pada) + observation, examination, survey of life activities - life knowledge

Among the people who were called intellectuals and scholars before becoming fearless and awakened in relation to the knowledge of life, this
It is natural, according to their condition, to have doubts as to how life itself will be able to see life and its
What will be the proof? In answer to this, it has been seen that the structure of life in its form consists of constitutive atoms.
In the form of an atom there is a definite and meaningful composition consisting of four surrounding and central parts. every in this
The surrounding and central parts all remain active. As a matter of fact the name Madhyamsha (Central


<newpage>

42 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

part) is called 'soul', the first environmental part is called 'intellect', the second environmental part is called 'mind', the third environmental part is called 'mind'.
These parts are named 'vritti' and the fourth environmental parts are named 'mind'. All these things exist naturally
Who always illuminates the reality. Life existence is a simple thing. life creation-
The sutras have also been seen to be composed in a spontaneous manner and every person can study and understand them.
Could. Seeing means understanding.

In the awakened human being itself (four ambient and central parts in the form of composition composed in a spontaneous manner) the mind is sequentially
Experiencing has been seen in instinct, instinct in mind, mind in intellect, intellect in soul and soul in co-existence.
To experience is the completeness and continuity of understanding.

Till the fear of bondage, the mind remains influenced by the method of hypnosis in the shape of the body. In favor of such a confused mind
Thoughts, desires as well as comparisons lead to love, interest and benefit. As a result, confusion and fear are confirmed.
Because of this, every body is affected in the journey. Every person can prove this through survey.
With the above method, body-centric mentality and hope of living according to it and life in support of it.
As a result of the mind being in support of the powers, the idea of ​​heaven, hell, sin and virtue was accepted.
On the basis of which fear and temptation were considered necessary. confident in whose success
Emphasis was laid on mentality. As a result, religious mentality has changed due to changes in community traditions.
Came to flourish. Beliefs are formed on the basis of maximum fear and temptation, due to the desires working in human beings.
Got to live in any form or arbitrary form. Beliefs remained mostly mysterious. Therefore beliefs
It was not possible to verify in practice.

Life becomes a natural expression only through a life full of experiences. Whereas the illusion is also based on the 'illusion of life'.
Has been seen to happen. Experience and awakening are found to be expressions of life satisfaction, while illusions
It was seen to be indicative of dissatisfaction. The basic form of getting confused, living and working is life itself.
There is an illusion based on considering the body as life. Understanding life as one's own and its
Being certified in life's awareness in expression is an innate proof of experience and awakening. So it is clear
Life itself is confused, life itself is destined to become awakened.

In a confused state, contrary to humanity, living beings can be seen living in harmony (beloved, beneficial, beneficial tendencies).
Is. Whereas human innate originality is humanity itself. Awakening to humanity through spontaneous method, spontaneous method
Is certified by. This awakening and freedom from illusion is a simple proof. On this basis, humanely


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 43

Living in the system means living in the form of delusional inhumanity, i.e. living as animal, human and demon human.
Is assessed, whereas every person wants to live full of humanity. Thus we
Coming to the conclusion, there is a need to awaken tradition because every human child is dependent on a parent.
It happens in the womb. After this, offer it in any religious institution, state institution or any educational institution.
It does happen. If these institutions are the carriers of awakening then it is an awakened tradition, otherwise it is a confused tradition.
Awakening is everyone's blessing. The form of awakening is participation in the system itself and the overall system, through other means.
Humane conduct is awakening and thirdly, living in a family based self-rule system is awakening.

From the facts indicated and their analysis it is clear that life itself remains confused, life itself remains awake.
lives. The source of life awakening and confusion is mainly human tradition. tradition of staying awake
In this situation awareness becomes widespread. In case of confused tradition, popularization of confusion
It happens. This has been the case till this decade. Even in such a situation, research into some human
After the need arises and awakens itself, it becomes a source for the awakened tradition. illusory
A lot of research has also been done based on the method of illustration and analysis. While awakening spontaneous research
Human, human system, human consciousness, being proposed in a natural way, being accepted in tradition,
Popularization was a necessary condition.

On the basis of the creation of life, it has become clear that the soul is an indivisible function in life. experience itself in existence
Soul is a spontaneous action. Anubhav is the action of reversion by another name and its reflection is the action of
Named as authenticity-proof. Experientiality is a process taking place in the soul. This is awakening. it
Awakening is the awakening that takes place in the soul through coexistence. Experience in awakening coexistence
happened. The movement occurring in this awakened state has been named reversion. total reversion philosophy
And are revered by the name of knowledge. Knowledge and philosophy are present in a naturally present form. total
The inanimate-conscious nature combined with existence is the basic form of coexistence. general idea of
It is possible for every human being. The basic source of imagination is the vague dynamic form of hope, thought and desire because
The entire imagination is seen to remain in action in reflection. only humans use imagination
Is. It can also be said that every person uses imagination in different ways.
The greatest use of imagination by confused human beings comes naturally in the form of approximation to the body and senses.
Is. This illusion is compulsion. These imaginations are ready to become clear in a marked form. only then duly


<newpage>

Mediated philosophy Co-existentialism (existential human-centric thinking)
272 practices of awakened life
verbs Akshay
Actions of renewable force. renewable force of inexhaustible power of life
actions of power
(alternation) kname | Component actions (reflection)
Name
Anubhav Atma Madhyamsha | Proof authenticity
th
Limit Bo Buddhi First Environment Ritambhara Ka Dhi
Existence D D Dhriti
llp
4. Shruti 4. Smriti
2. intelligence 2. art
3. Radiance 3. Form
4. Observation, Mind, Desire, 4. Gunas
5. Santosh Environment 5. Shri
no no
6. Love 6. Exclusivity
7. affection 7. spontaneity
8. reverence 8. veneration
4. Vidya 4. Pragya
2. fame 2. thing
3. determination 3. charya
4. peace 4. kindness
5. grace 5. compassion
6. Dam 6. Pardon
7. readiness 7. enthusiasm
V
8. Gratitude ye 8. Surrender
9. Gaurav III Shle 9. Simplicity
v instinct idea courtesy
0. Trust environment 0. Courtesy
44. Truth 4. Religion
no sensation
42. Justice 42. Compassion
3. Identification 43. Courage
44. Restraint 44. Rules
45. Bravery 5. Patience
46. ​​Emotion 6. Emotion
47. Caste 47. Time
48. Satisfaction 48. Confirmation



<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 45
4. devotion 4. concentration
2. Affection 2. Generosity
3. Respect 3. Harmony
4. affection 4. loyalty
5. Son-Daughter 5. Anurag
6. Owner/Partner 6. Liabilities
7. Servant/Assistant 7. Duties
8. Autonomous 8. Prosperity
9. Interest 9. Health
0. Dear 40. Trends
44. Joy 4. Despair
42. modesty 42. hesitation
43. Guru 43. Authentic
44. Disciple 44. Curious
45. Brother-Friend Nya 45. Progress
46. ​​Sister Sawa IV 46. Unnati
7. Acceptance Mind Environment Hope 7. Welcome
48. Interest 48. Identity
49. Happiness 9. Invigoration
20. Husband/Wife 20. Chastity/Chastity
2. Mother 27. Nutrition
22. Father 22. Protection
23. Soft/Hard 23. Transportation/Conveyance
24. Cold/Hot 24. Nutrition
25. Sour 25. Nutrition
26. Sweet 26. Nutrition
27. Chirchira 27. Nutrition
28. Bitter gourd 28. Nutrition
29. Astringent 29. Nutrition
30. Saline 30. Nutrition
3. Fragrance/odor 37. Respiration/exhalation
32. Beautiful/Ugly 32. Welcome/Unwelcome



<newpage>

46 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

illustration of human constitution

behavior family relationship values

Behavior Family Group...Relationship Values

behavior village self rule family relationship values
behavior village group family relationship values

behavior village area family relations values

behavior circle family relationship values

behavior circle group family relationship values

Behavior Main State Family Relationship Values
behavior oriented state family relationship values

world state family united society (relationship value)

Universal Order World Rajya Sabha Partnership

Principal Rajya Sabha

Main Rajya Sabha
Arrangement Board Group Rajya Sabha Participation
Board of Management Rajya Sabha Participation

Village Area Rajya Sabha Participation
Arrangement Village Group Rajya Sabha Participation
Arrangement Gram Swarajya Sabha Participation

arrangement family group gathering participation

arrangement family gathering participation


<newpage>

experiential spiritualism

evolution of atom into existence

divine position
discharge from office

, Infection
infection infection

infection infection

human position
That

get confused
,

survival mode

, Infection
infection infection

vital force

vital state

Ha
Prana Har.
|

state of matter


<newpage>

48 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Analysis and definite depiction constitute acceptance of possibilities in the form of ideas. goal of possibilities
Love, interests and benefits are found to be limited within limits. This is the meaning of illusory action limit.

This fact is clear in the portrayal of an awakened life that justice, religion and truth are their realization, realization and experience.
The aim and task of study and research is. Existence and life are based on these forms of work.
Getting established in the concept is also an indicator and criterion of successful study. autonomous on this basis
It becomes clear that humans are being surveyed, inspected and tested. autonomous human experience in existence itself
It is clear that he is the carrier of spontaneous awakening. In this way the study naturally involves life and coexistence.
In order to be experienced and certified in the soul's existence, in order to be experienced, in life.
To be central, to be accepted as having intermediary action and intermediary power, is to be supremely satisfied. life creation
Madhyamsh is always used in the sense of spontaneous mediating action, mediating force, mediating power, balance.
Is. This is the evidence in the awakened human tradition. Biography sequence and life awakening from intermediate action set sequence
The sequence is expressed. Awakening in this sequence is the combination of natural inclination, effort and necessity.
It is accomplished by law. This research is also the connecting element for research and study. This element always-
Always remains busy in life and prestige. Research, research, study only on the basis of its intensity
It becomes easy. In this way it becomes clear that the soul is experienced in existence through the method of study.
Is. Secondly, through research method also the feeling of existence is found.

Even through research method, it has been observed that first of all there is awareness in existence and only after this the soul comes into existence.
Feeling has been observed. Same situation with study method i.e. first understanding and then experience.
is found. Out of these two methods, the study method is better for gaining knowledge in less time for popularization.
A situation arises. To be engaged in research method, it is necessary for a person to have goal-oriented curiosity.
Is. When all the questions are answered through study method. question space being vacant, in the same space
Establishing the complete answer is a combination and function of study and teaching. in a state of no question
Does not form the basis of research. In this way, the answers to all the questions in the tradition can be found by every human being through study method.
In every situation and circumstances, the answer to all the questions is the convenient method of co-existence.

Before the research method and study method, there is realization, only then “realization” is experienced in the soul.
Is. After experience, “experience intuition” is similar in study and research method and there is a
only occurs. The main fact in this is accuracy, genuineness, teaching material, object with truthful method,


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 49

The process needs to be perfect. Unknown question mark is very important for research. every research
The method of study and teaching makes it easier to become popular. This type of experience
The experience itself has been seen to be 'realization'. It is appropriate for every person to have this.

In the process of spontaneous awakening of life, it has been seen that the soul itself is experienced in the existence of co-existence.
Is. As a result, the soul has a spontaneous mediating action and an area of ​​influence in the form of mediating force and mediating power.
Has been observed. Due to this sphere of influence, the realization of “experience” in the intellect, realization of “experience” in the mind.
The significance of this is in the attitude of comparison (justice, religion, truth) and the taste of “experience” (in the form of value) in the mind.
Is influenced and accepted. From that very moment the continuity of “loyalty” is found. Meaning of “loyalty”
The experience of continuous impact means being overwhelmed by all the activities of life. experience sphere of influence itself
It is found to be continuous because there is nothing more than experience left in existence. total existence
On the basis of experience being reachable, the area of ​​influence of intermediary action will be in the form of life activity forever.
Being satisfied, satiated and satisfied has been seen in the entire reflection-reversion process. this life is easy
It is also indicated by happiness, peace, satisfaction and joy.

Awakening of life is a simple glory that reflects human expectations in tradition. to attest to tradition
There is only one solution - behaviour. Being of the body while presenting behavioral evidence in human tradition
Coexistence is a natural arrangement. That is why only in the awakened life tradition or in the awakened tradition, every
Family proves and verifies human solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence. every
In practice such verification is evaluated. On the basis of these facts, an awakening human tradition
The need, its possibility and the combination of these two is the appropriate method.

According to the facts, analysis and communication stated above, it is clear that the shelter and protection of the human race
It is based on empirical tradition only. In case of failure in this, human existence on this earth
A question mark has been raised on the issue itself.

Empirical tradition is based on justice, religion (integrated sociality), truthful system, method, policy including law.
It is natural to participate in the universal system. These three sources in human family i.e. justice, religion, truth
The mediator has been seen to have eternal glory in an intact form. Existence intact only through intermediary method
is employed. That is why experience in existence is a spontaneous function of intermediary action, intermediary force, intermediary powers.
To be affected by. Basically what is the mediation effect? The answer lies in the existence of even-odd


<newpage>

50 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The force and power employed in maintaining the commons. Force and power are inseparable. such force
And power has been seen to be the form of action itself.

Control of even and odd or control of excesses. Magnificence of the nuclear fraction contained in the atom.
is clear. The presence of surrounding particles in every atom being more or less than a certain distance is an odd noun.
It always appears to be balanced by the method of use of nuclear force and power - Understood
Comes. This balance is the 'effect' on the atomic unit. This mediator action, mediator
There is introduction and proof of force and intermediary power. Because every atom is in a balanced state
Being present in the form of nature and movement, resulting in development in mutuality through utility-complementarity method,
Sublimation, chemical reactions and compositions became clear. Every structure must be in the order of complementarity.
And has been seen to be complementary to reconstruction. This is evident from the seminal method in the vital state.

The nature of balance in physical structure can be seen as a result of the grandeur of weight binding and molecular bonding.
gets to. These same molecules were seen to tend to form chemical compositions including chemical energy.
Is. The word 'bondage' used above refers to the illusory bondage that occurs in the conscious nature itself.
Name is given in analog. Only humans give the name. The creator of any name is the human being. while every
Atoms exist spontaneously in the form of molecules, every molecule exists spontaneously in the form of a composition.
Has been observed. Spontaneous formation of motion particles in atoms (more than one particle spontaneous method)
Remaining functional by staying at a good distance from each other) is assessed along with its balance. temperament speed
The definition itself is balance in the status quo, trend in development. This is the whole physical-chemical world.
Activity can be seen. This is a study of every structure. and also construction
Complementarity is seen to be meaningful in sequence. This complementarity is related to physical-chemical composition.
Is. Because atoms and molecules are the only two types of creation and destruction in the entire existence.
It is clear. The controlling element of the atom lies in the atom and the controlling element of the molecule lies in the molecule itself.
lives. The controlling element of creations lies within the creations themselves. Complementarity method is effective in mutualism
It always remains. It is clear that there is creation by rules and creation by rules. This complementarity rule is responsible for the creation and deconstruction of
Can be seen in the chemical-physical world. Coexistence is ever effective.

The most important substance to illuminate the sequence of evolution in the physical-chemical world order
And the object appears to be moving. In the same sequence, the smallest object atom also achieves the goal of completeness.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 54

And existence becomes clear on the basis of evidence of existence. The word Chaitanya is due to the glory of completeness, Chaitanya
It has become clear that life exists as a unit.

The explanation of development (excellence) in creations has been proved in various forms on this earth. all this
Chemical Urmi festival spontaneous creations are present in the form of Andaj, Pindaj and Uddhij traditions. it
The creation of the entire chemical world appears to be grand. Whereas all creations of matter
The result is seen to be accomplished through the consequential method. The result is basically the number of particles in the atom itself.
This can be seen through numerical differences. On the basis of such result, there will be species of atoms, consequently
It is obvious that there are creations. From this analysis and study it became clear that nature and speed are in reputation only.
There is a tendency to create and there is a tendency to destroy. Every creation remains an object of re-construction. creations
It is composed of composed objects and substances. In this way the structures are complemented by rules, regulations, work, glory and
The existence of prestige is revealed in spontaneous coexistence. Its viewer is only human. charged motion
There is a tendency to deconstruct, not a tendency to create. It also became clear that every structural trend
The tendency is found to be nourishing. This is also necessary. According to the coexistence rule, the effect
According to this, a prosperous earth is formed only then or when the earth is decorated in the form of prosperity, creation, deconstruction.
The work in the form of a continuous process complements each other and becomes prosperous and prosperity comes easily as is.
Is visible. This is completely proven in this earth because the entire creations of the material world
By the consequential method, the entire creations of the life state are created by the bijainic method and the living state and
The body structures of the state of knowledge, living in splendor as a tradition through hereditary method, is the responsibility of every common man.
Makes sense.

In the living world, through the method of movement, prestige, biography, sequence in the living nature, hereditary activities are certified.
It appears meaningful in the process of doing it. What this means is that it is determined by hereditary method.
It became clear that the life attitude that approves the activity is the form of hope for living.
The hereditary body remains composed in the form of five sense organs and five action organs. towards the same work
Approval is the order of biography and hope of living is a natural expectation and commitment. By this method life and
The combination and co-existence of the bodies of the living world including the body is clearly visible. This
Through this method, we are able to study that in proving the hereditary activities in living bodies,
In working, one accepts a life worthy of it. also certified such acceptance


<newpage>

52 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Does. Therefore, according to the hereditary method in the living world, there is no possibility of awakening.
There is neither a need nor a tendency, hence there is no question of making efforts, the answer is no.

The unit of knowledge in co-existence is only human. The meaning of knowledge is a living human body.
Composition: Revealing additional facts about the activities limited to the five sense organs and five action senses. human
The anatomy has been observed to be in the uterine mode. Formation of embryo in the uterus. Method of fusion of egg and sperm.
It has also been known to be from. Ovum and spermatozoa are basically the creation of life sources contained in life cells.
Is. In this composition, i.e., the structure of the amphipathic insect remains established in the form of body structure formula only in the combined form.
For this reason, the hermaphrodite (male and female body) system continues to exist. Androgynous body testifies to this
Creation takes place. In this way, hereditary structure is basically based on the anatomical formula contained in amphibious insects.
It is clear to remain based. The human body is also created in the same sequence. human anatomy
This is the difference in the prosperous Medhas creation, life is based on this, awakening ahead of biography sequence.
Mounted in order. By looking at the actions and traditions carried out by primitive man till now
This is witnessed. Evidence of being established in the process of awakening, considering the body as life but still performing body functions.
Not being satisfied with, suffering from the understanding of disorder, suffering from the pain of injustice and problem. One
Part was seen adopting temptations and beliefs to forget these pains.

Human multifaceted tendencies in the form of tradition, basis of fundamental selfhood like imagination and freedom of action
But it kept spreading. In a tradition spread across various dimensions, directions, angles, perspectives, from, to,
For education, values, constitution, system, forms of culture, civilization, law and order of the community in another language.
The existence of traditions has been seen in.

The fact that the functioning of the human body completes life itself is clear. human body movement
Multifaceted traditions were seen in the sense of being cultural, this was found only in human tradition.
It was also seen in this that only human beings can make good use and misuse of their talents.
Because good wishes keep rising in every human being. These surging wishes have become polarized
And the efforts and expressions made from the distant past till this decade confirm this fact.
All good and its respect has been seen to be possible only when every child and elder awakens it in an accessible form.
Get it certified. Such universal awakening, universal awakening, verifiable awakening, awakened tradition
Being in, from, for has also become clear. mediator action, mediator power, mediator force in waking life


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 53

To find out the method of understanding the nature of the system along with its function, nature of work and purposes.
Is necessary. This is the purpose of education and culture. This will facilitate smooth progress in the popularization programme.

It will definitely happen.

The mediating action has been identified as the central part of the atom. presence of middle part in the conscious atom also
This is natural because the conscious unit is basically a formed atom. characteristic of this atom
There is “formation”. The originality of completeness is - molecular binding and weight binding, liberation and hope, thought,
The revelation of the bondage of desires and in this sequence the liberation from the bondage of hope, thought and desire is the form of awakening.
As a result, the definite activity of awakened life is humanity and humane tradition. such consciousness
The nature and function of the intermediary activity in the unit is also to maintain the status quo and to maintain the biographical sequence, awakening
Keeping the order and awareness intact and controlling the splendor daily is a form of tradition.
Mediating action is spontaneous originality.

The goal of creating all the physical and chemical objects and substances through evolutionary process in existence is its
Deconstruction work in confirmation; It has been made clear that it is a tradition. The entire structure is composed of atoms and molecules.
And in the creations composed by Kosha, the hereditary intermediary action is seen in the form of a system with its own “tva”.
It has been seen published and certified. In this sequence, consequential, consequential and
This is evident in the form of hereditary composition and functions. In the biographical sequence ‘Life’ is based on hereditary balance and “Twa!
The meaning of proving the system including the system i.e. the “element” of heredity has become clear.
And the study is accessible. This balance and system and the proof of participation in the overall system is the mediator.
The action has to happen. Basically, to maintain the balance of the status of consciousness among the spontaneous consciousness of life.
In its elemental form, it is a mediating verb because the mediating verb is the glory of the central or nuclear verb.
It is clear from. The mediator in the conscious unit is employed in maintaining the completeness and continuity of the action.
lives. The entire life is bound by hope in this balance which helps in proving itself in the course of biography.
Those who remain prone develop a reputation for keeping their body alive along with control and living as per expectations.
Here “intermediary action” is expressed in keeping the body alive. This is the originality in the living world that
There is no life unless any action or behavior other than heredity governs that body.
Does, that is, works according to inheritance. Whereas being a human cultural unit, descent method
It has been clearly seen that even the body structure itself is meaningful. Therefore, the entire study of human life


<newpage>

54 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Sahaj and sanskar happen in a natural sequence. Only then participation in the overall system including humanity

It happens.

Intermediate verb: To know, accept, recognize its glory and its integrity, and act accordingly.
Humans have innate originality. Mediating action in itself is a constant source of natural motion in all states.
Is recognized in. In the same sequence, in the life working in the state of knowledge, the natural pace and the charged pace are also seen.
It is easy to recognize. This spontaneity has been recognized in such a way that it can be expressed with humanity and
Being published is a natural human movement. Inhumane publications and activities
Appears as. Inhumanistic tendencies found in conflict, war, exploitation, treason, rebellion
Whereas humane conduct, behavior and system movements act as natural solutions.
Gets to see.

In the awakening phase, while being bound by hope, thought and desire, human beings remain busy in their favorite, beneficial and beneficial activities.
Despite life's spontaneous control, the 'mediating action' remains active in keeping the body alive and controlled.
Is. Along with this is the pain of chaos, the felt need for order, and the hope of achieving
It comes out only in the form of “intermediary action”. Therefore drawing attention to the possibility of awakening
This is the glory of “intermediary action”.

The need for awakening has been seen to be the glory of the “intermediary action” itself. supply of need
Life remains contained in the “intermediary action” in the form of control along with natural inexhaustible force and endowment with inexhaustible power.
Is. Its authentication method and its use method and satisfaction methods life knowledge, existence philosophy
In the course of spontaneous study, generalization was seen.

Till the stage of awakening, it is the glory of “intermediary action” which makes the need and inevitability for awakening itself-
Has been explaining in a spontaneous manner. The most appropriate and accessible fact is that this is the transition from material state to knowledge state.
Man has the opportunity to study and evaluate himself till he awakens in the state of knowledge.
This means that both these luxuries together have become accessible to all human beings. in awakening, from, studying for
And its necessity and necessity has become clear to humans.

It is an easy proof that every person becomes proficient in justice and peace-filled conduct only through awareness. Humanity
It is a desired object of human beings. On this basis, all the dimensions of life awakening, methods, working system


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 55

It has been explained earlier in which the creation, functioning, purpose or ultimate objective of life is inexhaustible.
Force, inexhaustible power, indivisibility of the five components of life, life in existence (conscious nature)
Indivisibility of, co-existence of inanimate-conscious nature as the infused inanimate nature in being.
It has been made clear to be ever present. It has also been made clear that existence neither decreases nor increases.

Earth is not suitable for human habitation as a result of human activities and actions done out of illusion.
The sequence of disqualification has begun. There is a need to be awakened and life is natural for every person.
Accepts awakening. Awakening due to these two needs and moving towards complete awakening
It has become mandatory. In the awakened state, the mediatory action working in life is to balance the formational completeness and spontaneous opulence.
balanced, controlled and universal system, as expressed through just law, keeping
The society works in the form of sense, feeling, realization, experience for, from, for the all-round solution.
At this very point, having faith in the present through co-existence and spontaneous method is the glory of the mediation process. Conflict
The disappearance of, belief in coexistence is the effect of intermediary action. All these appearances are in the form of experience and understanding.
Has been seen to occur in. This awareness is available to all through awakened tradition. mediation action spontaneous justice and
It is natural for Dharma (all-round solution) to result in practice and for authenticity
Inevitability is created. In the situation of “functionality” there is glory of “intermediary action”. elemental form
In this it has been seen as justice, righteousness, truthfulness, freedom from the bondage of illusion; of labor
Rest; As soon as one has the understanding of justice, religion and truth, it becomes evident in the work in a natural way.
Is. Along with this, the purpose of experience automatically becomes stronger. life in its own order
Participation accepts spontaneous method. This will forever remain in the tradition for the purpose of rites and favors.
Awareness is found. This is the resting state of labour.

“Perfection of conduct” is destined to be expressed and certified in the conscious unit only because of its spontaneous expression.
Is. Immortality of result, rest of labor and destination of movement co-exist with the method of spontaneous awakening
Manifestation becomes clear only on this earth. Awakening of mediatory action in the state of “behavioral perfection”
Completeness is effortless i.e. the entire life gets overwhelmed in the sphere of influence including experience in co-existence.
It has been seen that as soon as one becomes awakened i.e. as soon as one experiences existence, all the components of life
Become completely animated, that is, experiences become animated in a natural way. This is what is easy in the intellect
Perception', 'spontaneous realization' in the mind, 'spontaneous comparison' in the instinct and 'spontaneous taste' in the mind are part of daily prestige.


<newpage>

56 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Has been seen to be in the form. In this awakening and prestigious life, the selection process should be done with authenticity and analysis.
Overwhelmed by process authenticity, depiction process authenticity, resolution process authenticity
Has been observed to remain animated. This is the glory of mediation in an awakened life. whose
How much is necessity, inevitability, expediency, and to what extent? Every person can evaluate this.

In the elemental form, 'completeness of conduct' is the destination and existence itself is ever present and stable.
Existence is verified as a function of experience. This verification animates all life activities.
It is established in the method, that is, all the activities of life get animated easily due to the experience in the soul.
It is natural to have satisfaction or joy in the soul as a result of experience. This satisfaction is everything in life
In actions like all the five powers and four forces get animated instantly. thus complete
Life itself becomes a natural echo of experience. This is the contented life, the 'divine life', the 'illusion-free life',
It has been seen and understood to be an “awakened life”. Hence, the entire life is in accordance with the intermediary action.
Being active has been seen to be full of awareness. Due to this glory, even and odd in life
Activity becomes zero. For this, every life remains anxious and worried. Therefore,
In human tradition, there is a need for action, conduct and spontaneous tradition.

Existence in spontaneous co-existence, inanimate-conscious nature, form of ever-glorious existence, action, labor-motion-
Result publication Spontaneous activity and immortality of result, rest of labor, destination of movement Spontaneous
The entire physical-chemical and
Understanding the daily creation and destruction in the nature of life, the system and its traditions along with “Twa”
The simple process of getting it done has been completed. In this sequence, the rest of labor and the destination of movement.
There has been a need to authenticate the evidence in human tradition. to make it accessible to all
For this, the method of awakening and the system of understanding in its proof were identified through study. also experience this
It has been said that having awareness is another name for understanding or understanding is another name for understanding.
Such understanding is established in the concept through study based system, such empirical concepts
Existence as an inevitable process in order to manifest what is expressed and communicated.
It has become clear. In this sequence the experience of existence is continuous. This is the purpose of human beings. Life is eternal.
Existence is stable. On this basis, awakening of spontaneous life along with experience and sequence of experiences is possible.
Destination means awakening in life, completeness being the destination of life's pace, its continuity forever.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 5

Was seen to remain for. On these basis, “existence” exists in the form of inanimate-conscious nature integrated into being.
Propounded in, explained with the method of coexistence. This glorious awakening full life spontaneous expression
Is.

Being itself is the mediator in existence because the entire nature is ever present only through the process of being immersed in being.
By this method it is clear that existence is easily complete and constantly present in the form of co-existence. power position complete
Has been seen to happen. The splendor of completeness is visible in the form of comprehensive transparency. total
The situation in nature, i.e. the inanimate-conscious nature, is a function of the complete existence of transcendence that the entire nature
She is drenched in power. As a result, strength is certified as prosperity. Permissiveness of power
And expressed as transparency. By the same method, in the form of an atomic fragment and the largest planet-sphere
In all the forms that are seen, as a result of the state being full of power, there is transcendence in them.
Human innate intelligence has luminosity, activity and strength at its core (Knowledgeable
By method) seeing and understanding have become.

The expression of Irshta status and prestige, awakening life and being certified in the awakened human tradition is the state of knowledge.
Has originality. That is, awakened life is expressed only in human tradition. seer in this expression
Position proves prestige. The position of seer is the form of awakening. 'Life' expressed through the body Jeevastha
It is proved only through the human body, whereas the goal of life is proved by the spontaneous awakening of the human body. this expression
The human tradition is the natural proof of intermediary power, intermediary action, intermediary force, intermediary power, intermediary life.
There is only easy way. Therefore, the inevitability of human tradition is easily known. existence itself
There is daily coexistence, therefore awakened life is satisfied in coexistence. versatile expression of such satisfaction
It is famous in the name of tradition. Astu, Mediator Life, Mediator Action, Mediator Being, Force and Power
Presentation and explanations regarding Sahaj Vaibhav are presented. This intermediary philosophy is coexistence.

It has been seen in the Anubhav tradition that human beings are the basis and movement of evidence. expression communication order
Vaddamaya is a means in. Said, heard, indicated and pointed out in Vajbhamay, inference
It was presented, the inference was completed, it became comprehensible and it became comprehensible. These situations are explained by
Only what can be said and heard. There is something more than this - it becomes mere inference related to concept and perception.
Can. In confirmation of this assumption, acceptance of seeing the illustration is also found. This 


<newpage>

58 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

This type completes the entire visualization and audio-visual process. Reading is also listening. it
It has been observed that reading with responsibility leads to listening.

There are many methods of illustration method. Awakened people can picture their salvation and language-
Literature including art can be formulated using the formula of tasting truth. for thought and contemplation
In an ignorant person, inferences are formed in spontaneous mental situations and in front of an awakened person, experiences are formed.
In the Sahaj criterion, they are in the form of easy objects to test. Therefore, realization and experience
The approval and evaluation of those who are accomplished is always available. This 
Meaningfulness in every point, every dimension, direction, angle, perspective in a tradition full of authenticity.
Evaluation is done as a result of which human spontaneous awakening in all dimensions is meaningful through solution centric method.
It is natural to happen. That is why there is a need for awakened tradition.

It is clearly known that the basic source and basis of the system in existence is the atom. every species
In a spontaneous atom it has been observed that there are parts or fractions in the middle. Along with this, the inanimate nature
Basically atoms are divided in form. Physical-chemical including inert atoms, molecules and molecular structure
Participation in activities is seen. Chaitanya Prakriti Biography Sequence, Awakening Sequence, Awakening and
Awakening is the visualization of perfection in order to illuminate, express and communicate/become. Chaitanya
It is natural for an atom to have a center and it has been observed. Conscious atom has only one part in the middle
It happens and it continues to function as a mediator. While inert atoms also mediate
There is only one part of the action that works naturally, but there is also inclusion of more than one part in the middle.
lives. The specialty of this is that in the inert atoms there are mediators of Madhyamsha which perform spontaneous functions and also
Parts remain attached to it, some parts remain in the middle and are balanced for even-odd work.
Remain helpful in making. This is the main reason for displacement in inert atoms.
Its need is essential because the sequence of evolution and development is proved in atoms only and
To prove development, migration and displacement are essential and for many status quo
Is meaningful.

In the atomic “life” of the conscious unit, motion and displacement remain zero forever. on this basis
But only one part is used in Madhyamsha form. As a result, it remains free from burdening. by weighting
The function of being free is the formula for being free from molecular bonds. as a matter of course without formality


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 59

Immortality of the result which is the basis on which the intention or direction of the action remains in the atom.
With development, awareness remains assured. The goal of development is the immortality of the result.
Has gone. It is also seen that reflection is a regular function of reversion intermediary action. functionality and
It has become clear that it is a sign of good conduct and awakening. humanitarian consciousness through action
(Knowing, believing, recognizing, performing) becomes meaningful. Awareness of perfection, speed in conduct
The destination is seen to be worthwhile. This is the proof of Mukti Pada. This is the form of divine man.

In the word 'Divya Manav', the word 'Drishtha' becomes meaningful i.e. its complete expression. This 'divine man'-
Gods are inspirational for humans as well. The equal causativeness and inspiration of all divine humans is proved.
Is. Because all meaningful inspirations are in the sense of human need, life's need. This 'divine man'
The non-human is found to be inspiring in the human form along with the art of living with selfhood, freedom and rights.
Not a single person, animal, human or demon in this earth accepts the status of human. This is the awakening of perfection
The expectation remains. The innate possibility of awakening and awakening is expedient as an awakened tradition.
It is necessary to stay. It remains expedient as a research.

The soul is an indivisible form of life. Because of this intermediary activity, life becomes a spontaneous and complete activity.
It controls, balances and inspires. It has also become clear that the soul itself is the seer along with status and prestige.
Experience becomes grand in the form of action; as a result, experience becomes effective in the activities of life.
Has been observed. Since this experience is a form of awakening, the experience is conveyed in a natural form.
It is clear that it is easy to do, mandatory and the ultimate proof.

The truth of being expedient in the human tradition is explained only by awakening, seeing glory in existence completely.
Has gone. It is natural from such a glorious awakening i.e. experience to verify that basically: Existence
He is the entire visible and visible. Visibility means seeing, complete understanding through the method of understanding.
Comes in.

Existence itself, coexistence is the ultimate truth. This is seen as the status quo. your situation is true
In the form itself, there is inanimate-conscious nature integrated in the being along with the seer. In this way the entire existence is visible,
Hrishyaman result is evident in understanding and experience, verification of which is natural. this experience
Pramana is the formula to be expressed, communicated and published.


<newpage>

60 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Coexistence Spontaneous existence is ever present and expressed. Nothing exists as unmanifested.
Is. It is an illusion to believe or understand that there is something in existence indicated by the name 'Avyakt'.

“Experience” By virtue of being in, from, for, existing, the entire experience is communicable. opposite of this
To believe that experiences are not worth sharing with each other is an illusion, the height of illusion.

“Experience” happens in existence, from existence and for existence. In confirmation of this, consciousness in the form of an entity
Life is indivisible in existence, contiguous in existence. Power being transparent and transparent – ​​clear in experience
it occurs. On the contrary, it is not possible for anyone to see or verify the completeness. Power
Awakened life empirically verifies the innate comprehensiveness, permeability-transparency, all awakened
Can verify life. On the contrary, Brahma, Ishwar, Paramatma are used for the purpose of being an innate object.
To believe that it is unexpressed by naming it, that it cannot be expressed through speech, is an illusion.
It is the pinnacle.

Due to “Life” being eternal i.e. ‘Life’ exists due to being eternal and immortal in its nature.
Only the present remains. This body is called human during the journey, after leaving the body these same gods and goddesses,
Are called ghosts. On the contrary, considering Gods and Goddesses to be unmanifested, invisible and not understandable,
To understand this, one has to meditate, worship and pray for an indefinite period - without any proof.
Give sermons. This is a complete illusion.

The experience of existence as the ultimate proof proves the all-round solution in an easy way. every
A person can prove it consciously. Its need is present in everything, it is universal
The system is a united society. On the contrary, it is a complete illusion to believe that the solution is individual and true.
Everyone has their own.

Every human being wants to live in peace, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence and its continuity. for this
Experiential education-culture method is appropriate. On the contrary, the belief that humans will never improve
This may be a complete illusion. Every human being wants to have relationships, values, evaluations, ambivalence, family human beings.
Humanistic education and culture is necessary for its continued success. This is done empirically
is found to be certified. Humans can experience continuous values ​​in relationships. make it successful


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 64

Ignoring the law of action, thought and behavior and believing that there cannot be a family without enmity
And there will always be hatred, there will be sorrow, we have to spread our illusion far and wide by calling these the truth.

It has been observed that it is our natural destiny to become awakened ourselves after getting inspiration from a certified awakened person.
The possibility is always expedient. Instead of recognizing it and proving justice in practice
To believe that only Gods, Goddesses and accomplished people will save us, that we are not capable of floating on our own, is a complete illusion.

Every family is capable of maintaining the family tradition with human solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence,
Want and can fulfill it in a way that complements each other. empirical for
Evidence, method, system are appropriate. Ignoring this and believing that humans are basically dependent, that
It can be fulfilled only by things related to general aspiration (food, shelter, adornment), hence in this
Poverty will remain. They need help from every person through leadership on this issue.
To show poverty, to impose it, to convince others is an illusion.

From birth, a human being is a seeker of justice, desirous of doing right behavior and a truthful speaker. legacy
Through natural means (education, culture, constitution and system) every person has the capacity to provide justice and do right things.
The ability to behave is an absolute necessity to realize the truth. This experiential human tradition
It is meaningful only in me. Ignoring this makes every person selfish, ignorant and sinful from birth.
Not only this, to believe, say, be called a criminal, commit a mistake, or give consent to do so is the height of delusion.

Is.

Every person is interested and excited to participate in the family-based self-rule system. of this
He wants to live by allowing us to live together as a 'family man', free of enmity and full of harmony. this human instinct
The expression of freedom and independence is surveyed in form. To make it successful, use empirical method.
Is expedient. On the contrary, power-centric governance-constitution whose mentality is rather than status quo
Penal laws for mistakes and crimes, consider neighboring country and religion as their opponents and enemies.
It was propagated to make the commitments i.e. wrong beliefs accepted in every possible way.
Don't vote for it, it was found to be a complete misconception.

Every human being working, behaving in a family-oriented self-governance system, in the family and the overall system.
Is eligible to participate and is eligible to be certified through Jagruti Purna method. empirical for this


<newpage>

62 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Traditional method is necessary and expedient. Without doing the necessary research and vice versa
Slavery means slavery to God and acceptance of slavery to community religion and community state.
To present the programs in the traditional way is an illusion from beginning to end. awakening spontaneous
The proof is that the family-oriented system is the source of fulfillment of imagination found in every person.
Becoming proficient and agreeing to make and self-discipline as the fulfillment point of freedom of action is easy.
Is certified as evidence of independence. The only solution is to do it, to get it done. this decade
It has become expedient since.

Every human being should consciously know the glorious things in all four states, in their nature, speed and prestige,
There is always the qualification to accept, recognize and fulfill. impart education according to that qualification
Deprived of the ability to do so, they consider the opposite charged movement as “glorious and necessary”.
All the activities to celebrate (including education, rituals) are all an illusion from beginning to end. Because
The entire existence is development, life, life awakening prestige in the form of co-existence.

Every person should have ultimate awareness in the indivisibility of position and movement and nature and status within himself and
Wants to be complementary to others and to be so, i.e. to be certified, complete.
Empirical method is a convenient and convenient method. Ignoring it Charged pace and struggle
For to inspire and compel human tradition and to live is an illusion from beginning to end.

Every human being must know, accept and recognize the four states, their respective nature, speed and reputation, and live their life.
Are worth doing. Also to accept the chemical-physical composition and immortality of life.
Able to be understood, accepted and truthful and to be certified through empirical method.
are eligible. Ignoring these, considering the body as life and claiming to be intelligent, this
But the traditions established according to the decisions taken are an illusion from beginning to end. Not only this, the body
In order to explain life itself, it is a huge misconception and mistake to call humans animals and creatures.
Whereas human tradition is glorious in the coexistence of life and body.

Knowing, believing,
Worth recognizing and sustaining. This awakening education tradition leads to universalization. ignore it
Accepting relativity while forcing tradition to accept it is an illusion to this extent and
It is a mistake.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 63

To know, believe, indivisible form, quality, nature, religion in every unit of human nature.
It is a recognizable and manageable unit. It is consciously the same in, from, for every person. Its
It is essential to remain awake to human tradition. Depriving tradition, turning away from it, ignoring it, deconstruction
On the basis of or on the basis of not recognizing the pole point of a moving object, basically the object is unstable, uncertain.
Accepting and persuading is fundamentally an illusion and a mistake, whereas existence is stable, growth in existence and
Awakening is certain.

Believing and persuading that "experience occurs" only in the close proximity of the senses, all efforts are made to popularize it.
Devising solutions, as well as making the profit-obsessed, sensual and pleasure-obsessed mentality functional, progressive,
Considering and celebrating something developing and cutting-edge is an illusion from beginning to end. While in the living body
It has been observed that there is proximity of the senses. Life itself keeps the body alive. to understand the truth
Coexistence of body and life is necessary. In this sequence, life, awakening and awakening become completeness.
Certifies. The desire to prove awakening is inherent in every human being. This
To make it meaningful and popular, it is necessary to awaken the tradition. By this method i.e.
Only through the method of awakening tradition, the inseparable present mediator of life, the “soul”, is experienced in existence.
Does, is worth doing.

In science and enjoyment, over-indulgence, collection, convenience mentality, accepting what is seen in the eyes as truth and
Celebrating tradition has been observed. This is an illusion and wrong from beginning to end because mathematics is difficult for the eyes.
More is less than understanding. Understanding is the only thing that can be authentically popularized in tradition.
And it is through experience that justice, religion and truth are easily proven in practice. this popularization
For this to happen, it is necessary for tradition to remain awake.

Whatever is visible to the eyes is a part of the form (shape, volume, cube) of an object.
Is visible. The entire form is not visible to the eyes. Whereas every thing, form, quality, nature, religion
As indivisible present. This awareness-raising education method leads to universalization.

It is not possible to prove a human being by means of instruments and standards created by humans. But it is possible that
Believing and persuading educationally is an extreme illusion and mistake. While humans are the instruments and standards
Certifies. At its core also lies human belief. The remarkable phenomenon is that science
On the basis of his mechanical evidence, he got all his points accepted. Before this the idealists


<newpage>

64 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Convinced God and divinity on the basis of natural events and disasters. While both of these illusions
Remained the same. Because every human being in an awakened state appears much bigger than all instruments and standards.
Is. It is clear that all the instruments have been designed and designed by humans. Everything a human has done
Every human being can learn what has been learned. In this way, from these two all human beings
The similarity makes sense. This earth has been inhabited by humans for many centuries till now.
It was not possible to categorize and delineate that what one person does and learns can be classified into different categories,
Those called sect, opinion, creed, religion cannot learn, cannot do. This is clearly seen in the tradition
Even after this, the voice of whites and blacks created hatred and conflict in the name of sect, sect, beliefs and religion.
The one making the sound is visible and audible. This is confusion and mistake from beginning to end.

Human religion means living by letting go in a system based on all-round solutions. its universality
Everything is accepted. In the name of religion, many beliefs in community traditions are propagated against the community along with hatred.
Convincing the public and believing in it, giving consent to believe in it, all these are basically more than just meaning.
There is confusion and mistakes.

Only in the awakened tradition, universal Dharma-karma (humanity-filled Dharma-karma) and corresponding thought style and behavior
And experience itself is balanced form and movement. It is appropriate for it to be equally present in all human beings.
This is the essence of Jagriti tradition.

Merger is achieved only in complete fearlessness and complete mistake correction. full of good intentions
Idealistic vision, slave and slavery mentality and travel; All science and physical thought,
Rule over nature with servile mentality, rule over human beings with slavish mentality,
Ultimately the era came to an end in conflict. This was the end result of all the mistakes. till this decade
Again, convenience and war, expressed in language, have captured human tradition in their claws. this is the whole
It is the result of a mistake.

The only solution to all these mistakes is existential human-centric thinking.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 65

Chapter 5

bondage and liberation

The words bondage and salvation are famous among the people. There are many statements on both these issues, the most sacred scriptures.
Seen as and beliefs in various traditions. First, what thing as an object
The one who remains in bondage is the cause of all kinds of troubles in humans. Second, such as the object
What is it that keeps you tied? Third, what is that thing in the form of a thing that brings salvation?
Is?

Where are these three as “things”? Why does one perform such binding acts? who was in bondage to get freedom
After all, what is its purpose?

The natural logic is that if there is an object that can be bound, then the object that is binding is more powerful than it.
must have. If there is something that frees one from bondage, it is different from the one that keeps one bound.
In this situation it is necessary for him to be stronger than him. The further argument presents itself spontaneously.
Only he who binds can open (free). What is the purpose of tying in this order? ath se iti
Till now bondage has been described as tribulation and sorrow itself as sorrow.

If the subject to be bound is something other than the one who is being tied, what is there to be gained by giving him trouble? distressed
There is something that becomes happy after seeing the things; it is after seeing the troubles of the things that have come under bondage.
The same example occurs in a state of happiness. Just as a monster tortures an animal or a human, there is suffering.
By creating it, it laughs at itself. Such a scene can be seen in literature, story, fairy tale, virtue story, picture story and
It is seen in abundance in the form of acting, television, staging and publications. it's all human
Imagination, hypothesis is essentially an assessment of human actions and the story, fairy tale,
Situations accepted as virtuous stories are common. If something like this,
Anyone who binds a thing cannot be less than a demon. monstrosity and bestiality
Both are not easily accepted by humans. This logical method shows that no true object exists.
In every moment, in every day, in every year, in every century, it cannot be the cause of bondage.
Good men are seen. The first and last assessment of being a good person is through language.


<newpage>

66 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In form they are recognized as non-violent, cooperative, co-operative and co-companions. to some degree or another
Man definitely has this quality. Such qualities and actions which enable such a person to become more and more accomplished, we
Good man says. No one has any intention of troubling, troubling, or tormenting such a good man.
Then if there is a very good thing in existence then it would be to make someone happy by making him suffer by tying him with bonds.
No method is as clear as practical logic. Practical reasoning means human, with human
One who argues. There is no adequate answer within the scope of what is evaluated in good faith.
Is.

The one who binds by another method is very evil, very amused after seeing the troubles, sorrows and sufferings of demons and living beings.
Is going to do. There must be something more powerful than them that can free them from their clutches. if so
Any incident, coincidence, such a powerful thing, does not allow such an evil demon to exist, free everyone.
Gives. Nothing like this has ever happened to any human being on this earth. condition of this happening
Every person gets free. Tradition evaluates every person as sinful and ignorant.
And selfishness, this is the testimony of bondage, the form of tribulation. Origin of every community traditions and religious programs
Let's repeat. Even with this logical method, no practical answer is available.

With both these methods the cause of bondage cannot be clarified. Whatever methods are suggested for salvation
Doubts naturally remain in those who have gone. Therefore, there is no proof as to who attained salvation.
Out of all the methods suggested for salvation, not a single method was accepted by everyone and
Whichever method is accepted, its result i.e. “form of salvation!” proof of existence from any tradition
Couldn't get out. That is why no one can say or decide whether salvation has been understood or not.
This was not possible with both the above methods.

In the form of 'thing', the thing that binds, whose program is to keep being kept in bondage, the thing that comes in bondage.
And the method of matching them with the binder was not clear. It always involves logic and imagination.
The possibility of repeating, renewing remained. Therefore, keep updating as per the opportunity.
Secondly, living in different climates, imagination and intuitive logic were presented in different ways. all this
In a situation of seeing and hearing in one place, human beings, through their efforts, reach another country, island and meet each other.
Tried to understand the language and thoughts.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 67

To review the issue of multiple community concept and its feasibility, history to remember.
is also necessary. According to human history, communities have been identified on the basis of race and color. Its
Identified communities on the basis of commodity accumulation and poverty. further livelihood
Communities were identified on the basis of functions. After that, people of language, country and different faiths
Communities were identified on this basis. Now, in this decade in the sense of countries developed, developing and
Being recognized as underdeveloped. Collection, convenience, enjoyment, over-indulgence, multi-indulgence in human form,
On the contrary, most communities are identified as destitute. fight whenever
When this happens, mutual fanaticism of caste, creed, sect and religion is invoked. all types of communities
Ideological differences are counted as contradictory or mutually contradictory beliefs.

All such identified communities definitely discuss bondage and salvation. Do not explain the reason for the bond
Not being able to explain salvation and not being able to propound a universal solution for salvation is this.
The illusion of considering differences as the basis of different cultures became a trap. tenth decade of this twentieth century
According to both the preceding schools of thought, a universal direction and path did not become clear, whereas the need
Has been getting stronger.

As a result of experiencing the whole existence through the existential human centered thinking stream method
Nature of bondage, reasons and need for moksha (liberation), easy and universal solution for it
Study is accessible. This is the basis and explanation of the united society and universal system.
It is human behavior only.

From the beginning of this chapter 'Bandhan! And there are six (6) questions on the issue named "Moksha": -
, “What is the thing in the form of ‘object’ that remains in bondage?

2. What is the thing that binds as 'object'?

3. “What is the thing that gives salvation?

4. Where are the “three” mentioned above as “objects”?

5. Why does one perform such binding acts?

6. What is the purpose of the bondage after attaining liberation?


<newpage>

68 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Along with this, what is “object”? What is 'non-object'? Where, how and why does it exist? of all these
Man has been searching for meaningful answers since ancient times or since the beginning of idealism.
From then onwards various types of questions and answers continued.

After awakening it has been seen that existence itself is expression, existence itself is complete in other language.
is an expression. Coexistence itself is immersed in a comprehensive existence as an infinite creation. Of such creations
This earth is a creation. There are many earths like this earth. The four states that manifested in this earth
It existed, that is why it manifested on this earth also. whatever manifestations in this earth
Their method of work, method of form, method of creation were contained in this earth itself, that is why all four
The expression of conditions has become clear. Even with this method, atoms are naturally the root of the system.
The fact that form is function became clear. Along with this also comes determination, disintegration and fragmentation.
The form and functioning of the system are not determined by law. That's why for formation, organization, creation
The need for money remains, hence it is clear that there is a tradition of composition, such composition is natural.
Formation in the atom is the completeness of formation and its intactness, continuity in sequence, the conscious unit Jeevanpada,
He is continuously working to express and express the biography, awakening and awakening.
Constitutively, “The constant existence of life is the fundamental condition and movement of the state of consciousness. chemical-physical
In material form, creation and deconstruction is a fundamental task. whole matter and chemical-physical
Matter has been seen to be developing, working in the development process, participating and being meaningful. Physical
Things are expressed in the form of a system including “Twa” according to their respective atomic species. vital state
In the form of physical-chemical composition, it is expressed in the form of a system including “Element”. The entire living world is root-
In the coexistence of consciousness, the biological nature of every species is determined by the method of biological sequence, i.e., by the method of inheritance.
To have a system with 'tva' through hereditary method and to have a system with human 'humanity', life.
Awakening has been necessary. yet to recognize the universality of the thing signified by the human name
The rest was – this has become possible through existential human-centric thinking.

In human tradition, awakening was otherwise seen as a spontaneous acceptance of every child or every human imagination.
Is. Wants to be aware of every human form, every situation, every movement, recognize every relationship
Wants to be awakened and wants to be happy at the root of it all. In this sequence, the senses are close to each other.
By adopting various methods to become happy with the law, the man got trapped in the matter of convenience of collection.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 69

In a situation without collection, a person finds himself helpless and alone. Enjoyment, overindulgence only on the basis of collection
It is assumed to be tasted. As a result, the need and expansion of the collection
Favorable exploitation tendencies, tasks and methods started getting ready. The behavioral form of bondage was seen in this form
Is. It is clear that mentality (hope, thought, desire) is at the root of every action and method. life itself
Working as a mindset is obvious.

, What is that thing in the form of an object that remains in bondage?

Confused life itself expresses itself in the form of bondage, in the form of convincing four subjects and five sensations.
Does. This is the meaning of mentality in human tradition. Mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul are inexhaustible in life.
Working as forces and Asha, Thought, Desire, Ritambhara and Pramana as inexhaustible power.
It has become clear to remain employed.

2. What is the thing in the form of 'object' that binds and keeps us?

The answer is that there is no such thing in existence which puts life in bondage. Existence
Due to co-existence itself, routine is a natural source of inspiration. arrangement after life awakening
The possibility of living in is expedient for every human being.

It is clear from this that before the awakening and awakening of the goal of life, the situations and movements that occur before the completion of life, hope, thoughts and
Desire-beloved, interest, benefit, fear, temptation and faith and all the activities that take place due to their combination.
This has been seen to be an illusion. This is the bond. Evidence of coexistence in the form of experience - human consciousness, God
Consciousness is the divine consciousness order.

3. What is there in the form of a thing that can provide liberation?

Life awakening means one gets freedom from illusion in oneself, from oneself and for oneself with all three developed consciousness.
It is obvious that the existence of life is a natural thing because in its origin the entire atomic thing is life, which is also a structured thing.
It is obvious that it is nuclear. There is nothing other than life that can bring salvation. Motivational for 'Life'
The thing in coexistence is the awakened life itself because coexistence is stable, awakening is certain.


<newpage>

70 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

4. “Object! Where are the three mentioned above?

There is life in existence. Life remains confused before proving the awakening of its goal.
Like he makes a mistake before doing it right. Supreme awakening is the goal of life and supreme awakening is in existence.
Experience is an easy proof. In this way life expresses the bondage of illusion in the process of awakening, suffering
Yes, as a result there is a need to be awakened. Thus existence is ever present, in existence
Biography order, life awakening order, awakening and awakening completeness existence in spontaneous life, from, to, complete
Pramana is a spontaneous activity.

5. Why does one perform such binding acts?

Through the simple process of life awakening, the pain of bondage of illusion becomes clear on its own. accept it as life itself
Is. Illusory activities take place only in the form of four and a half activities in life. awakening in life
To be in the form of ten actions, to be a necessary destination, to be natural as evidence of its continuity.
seen. The human tradition is bound by illusion in many communities, awakening and awakening is its completeness.
In the form of continuity, the unbroken society, the universal system becomes glorious. existence thus
The object of expressing the bondage of illusion is life. The thing that accepts illusion is life itself and illusion
The thing that suffers from bondage is life itself and the thing that awakens is life itself. awakened him
Life itself is the expression of continuity. Life is indivisible in coexistence. in awakening order
In the form of illusion bondage, awakening is liberation from illusion.

6. What is the purpose of the bondage after attaining liberation?

Life awakening i.e. human consciousness, divine consciousness in completeness, divine consciousness in spontaneous proof and awakening in completeness.
Its continuation in the form of tradition is a destiny order. Based on this truth
Its purpose is to glorify the human tradition through the method of awakening and perfection. because life is constant
It is natural to be awake regularly. In this order, intellectuals suffering from bondage, confusion and problems versus word-loving people.
It is natural for this argument to arise that there should be continuity in the awakening sequence. awakening to this
The answer from the complete system is that life according to awakening sequence method or life according to illusion bondage method is infancy.
On the basis of expressing the desire to awaken the human progeny operating from the body.
Or on the basis of revelation, Jagriti order and Jagriti Purna tradition, naturally, Sahaj method.


<newpage>

experiential spiritualism and

It is easy to establish Jagriti reputation through this. Because in the awakened tradition there is great importance for the autonomous human being.
Necessary education and culture are easily available. Therefore the continuation of the illusion is only
It is proved during life itself. The need for confusion in the humanistic human tradition, from, to,
It has been found to be completely meaningless and unnecessary.

First of all, the functional form of confusion and bondage, the molecular bond in the atom, in addition to the freedom from weight bondage; only illusion
Expressing hope in the form of bondage is proved in the living world. Hope to be established in the post of Chaitanya,
The activity of thought is found to be at least the activity of hope. proof of this
Life itself establishes its own path of work as per its expectations. living the basic formula of hope
There is only hope. The hope of living is the manifestation of the natural desire of the mind in life. in this living state
is clear.

The transition from a forming atom to a forming atom is itself. Nature and action of infection before certain point
And the latter is the middle line only whose length, width and thickness remain unchanged. This infection is progressing
It is very easy and absolutely necessary for a human being to understand the result only because of his position as a seer, prestige and glory.
It is possible to see life, ease of work, reputation after infection with any device or with human eyes.
It is not because mathematical language is more than what the eyes can tell, that is, it is more than what the eyes can indicate.
It is seen to be indicated by mathematical language. Humans interact more with qualitative languages ​​than with mathematical languages.
It has been seen to be indicated in and as much as has been indicated through qualitative language and mathematical language
More and completeness have been found to be indicated by causal language. purport to indicate, purpose
It is about knowing, accepting and recognizing everything, including its object form, that is why human language is related to reasons, qualities-
Is mathematical.

Form exists naturally, a partial part of it is indicated by the eyes. whole and partial through mathematics
Guna is indicated, guna implies movement along with effect. Complete qualities and nature in qualitative language
Is indicated. Causative language method indicates nature and religion and indicates “existence as a whole”.
Is. With this method human language is automatically clear.

This shows that nature itself is in inanimate form and inanimate nature itself is in animate nature.
Gets infected. As long as the conscious nature remains limited by the hope of living, life will continue in the form of sequence.
To maintain the traditions of biographical sequence by partially using the viewpoints of dear, interest and beneficial.


<newpage>

72 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

As attested. This is the first stage of confusion. In this stage the pain of illusion or the pain of bondage is affected.
Is not certified. Along with this, logically there can be a doubt that without suffering the pain of illusion,
Man started awakening in the process of awakening by method? The answer to this question is that before this in the life cells
The composition method remains formulaic. After being established as a composition method tradition, the composition formula remains on its own.
In the course of spontaneous research, other types of composition methods are accepted in the festival. On this basis first
Through one or the other body and lineage, a body capable of advancing the lineage is produced. Its
The basic element is the climax of satisfaction in Rachana Sutra. Composition and methods when it comes to lineage and seed
Once the formula is established in its form, it is natural to be satisfied in itself. similar formula
Along with their work activities, they offer their readiness to advance activities, as a result
The research formula is approved. This is the research point of this research work.
It was seen becoming prosperous in the process. Human anatomy was derived from other traditions by this method.
After this, human tradition of natural body structures was established through inheritance. human anatomy
Being a sophisticated creation, it became clear that the human body has strengthened the desire for pleasure in the human tradition.
While in the initial times only the illusions of living beings were expressed with the hope of living in bondage.
Had to happen. As a result of the strong desire for happiness, body protection methods are developed in different ways than living beings,
Body nutrition methods established in tradition. There were definitely variations in this. goal of body nutrition protection
remained the same. That is why the readiness to be happy with the body increased. The bondage of illusion was already present in life.
The readiness to be happy with the body itself increased. The satisfaction point of the desire for happiness could not be found. strongly its
An attempt was made. The earth was sacrificed to reach extreme indulgence. till this decade
Have injured the earth in the most severe way. The science world and
There was a technology program and partial participation of every person was seen on the basis of materialism. This
As a result of confusion over law, suffering increased due to chaos. This suffering is also caused by humans
It has been achieved as a result of actions, behavior and thoughts; nothing else has any role in it.

In this process of awakening, fear, temptation and faith were recognized. Beliefs are not spared from opposition and rebellion. war
The incidents were repeated again and again but the war was not digested in the public mind. Samar Vaad, Samar Shakti, Samar Vigyan
To maintain this rule, treason, rebellion, exploitation, belonging to others were seen. This is also a pain
Ran away. Penal laws adopted in the rule of law (religious rule, state rule) also cause pain and suffering.
Happened. Religion: According to the Constitution, the difference in rights between men and women became the basis of most torture.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 73

The difference in rights among all the members of the family became the basis of torture and distrust. Business
And technology came into the clutches of capital in the form of money. Most of this decade
Technology, factories have adopted automated method. In this, the most capital investment method is
Was adopted. Accumulation of capital, interest system, exploitation and dividend were found to be countable. capital, capital
It increased from. Capitallessness also increased further. All of them participate in the family and technology organization.
What happened was the basis of hatred among people, of more and less. Till now, the family tradition is free from hatred, opposition and rebellion.
Couldn't make it. Empowerment to be certified as an autonomous human being and its impact in the ninth decade
Started getting certified from. Candidates for autonomous humans have increased in the decade. all this pain sequence
A means of reaching the need for change and the possibility of change and evidence of change
The chapter is completed.

The pain becomes stronger on the basis of the actions done in family and collective form using the Jagriti Krama method.
The form of was clarified. Due to this, confusion and bondage in practical form leads to hatred among human beings.
As, due to ideological differences, jealousy, hatred, fear, conflict between family and community.
Was seen to be in form. Individualistic in the form of mentality i.e. in the form of hope, thought, desire
Importances were counted on the basis of superiority, collection, enjoyment. Life as a function of taste, analysis
More and more illustration work was carried out from it. The entire illustration uses objects from this earth.
The method of certifying it was prepared. In this way, to exploit the earth's things to the maximum extent
As a result, the balance of the earth itself was estimated to be broken in various ways. this is the most pain
Became the basis of. Even now among the intellectuals and scientists, the intellectuals on the basis of their intellectualism
They less accept their participation in the imbalance of the earth and its environment. science on the other hand
And the scientist participating in the technological world, considers himself the chief among the mystics in the imbalance of the earth.
Few people accept the status of being a factor. The number of people suffering on this issue is still
It is the minimum. Still the number of victims is increasing.

In its elemental form i.e. life in its elemental form is a yearning for the functioning of the vision of justice or
Thirst has arisen. For the last 50 years, the expectation of justice from birth has been ingrained in the mentality of childhood.
Stay surveyed. Some social service organizations also express expectations in the name of justice. This
The nature of justice in the courts has not been clear for decades. Justice grows as a natural expectation in the public mentality.


<newpage>

74 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

What happened can be seen. Most of the activities done so far from the viewpoint of love, interest and profit.
The result is defeat and disappointment. Here detachment means accepting the futility of what has been done. it
Life activity is a formula for spontaneous awakening.

Unbalance of the earth due to misguided human activities, excessive increase in pollution, which
As a result, the existence of the earth was questioned. Population pressure, human temptation
Extremes, indulgence, overindulgence mentality and mutual hatred, exploitation, snatching, looting, war, rape
Many such incidents have become the pinnacle of suffering for humans. Man tried to get relief from suffering
Did further research as a result of which the path of awakening was paved. In this sense, “experiential
Spiritualism” is presented.

Four ways to enjoy the senses with the aim of becoming happy through the hope method of living in the evidence of the bondage of hope.
Subjects have to be considered as goals. Along with this, readiness to use life forces is the only solution to the bondage.
Being in form is seen. The offering made in this situation is counted as an illusion.
When the life forces are employed as a bond of hope and thought, all the logic and reasoning expressed
begins to happen. The one who accepts whatever Vadnamaya presents as the most true. Just like that
In confusion, he considers all Vajbhamay written in other ways as his opponents. The original person who was Vajgamaya
Established, towards which people have faith, this is one community and there are many such communities on this earth.
But it has been seen to happen. Such traditions considered the book as proof. Many such model books were established.
The people who approve and support those books in that tradition are ideal, virtuous people.
The public mind has been ready to accept it as such. Even in this decade, based on such beliefs
Chivalry and idealism are visible. It is expressed in various forms in the form of community beliefs.
While flowing, the contradictions and opposition between communities have not ended yet. all these
Traditions are seen to be respected on the basis of teachings and assurances. This hope-thought of bondage
This is the form because the various Vadnamayas which are respected in all these communities and are presented today in this decade,
Unable to determine unanimous understanding. The reason for this could not be clear from the study of humans,
Existence could not be explained as simple true coexistence.

It has been very important to express the bonds of hope, thoughts and desires in the awakening process because their results
It has been necessary to assess the pain. Earth for fulfillment of desire, expression of bondage


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 75

It is seen in the form of exploitation of forests, exploitation of humans. This scientist, technology
The system was a miracle. All community governments should strengthen their strategic capabilities along with their compulsions.
To make the countrymen aware of the struggle for power with the slogan of unity and integrity, it is also a bond of will.
The sequence is seen to be a lofty effort and attainments including voice. In the same sequence it was also seen
All the religions that cry for detachment and non-collectibility collect many facilities under the bondage of desire.
By exploitatively or on the basis of hard work, they achieve their own glory in various ways (desire
It has been seen to express the splendors of bondage. All those who fail in this become frustrated and
He is seen to be worried. Similarly, the seat of education also becomes educational as per the desires.
He was seen to be busy in work and establishing Vajdamayya Abhishas. this decade
Salaried persons, professors and professors working in educational institutions established, operated and functioning till
Is seen happening. This is a proof of desire and every student should get a job (salaried) or
Establishes itself as a trader (exploiter) and the aim of both these activities is convenience, collection,
It is just enjoyment. This is a review of the human tradition of desire bondage up to this tenth decade.

It was necessary for someone or the other to reach the pinnacle of the pain of “illusion and bondage”. this in regularity
It happens systematically because in spontaneous co-existence the ultimate goal state is fixed and stable.
Is. Because existence is stable, awakening is certain. To be certified, to coexist
Spontaneous actions, processes, systems, methods are clearly visible between existence and awakening. to exist
It is visible as a daily present. The state of knowledge in coexistence is the innate human nature combined with inanimate and conscious.
In the form of tradition, awakening through spontaneous method is found to be spontaneous evidence.

Human tradition has been struggling with awakening till the last decade of this century. now awakened tradition
The natural expediency of getting certified in this form is being seen because experiential communication is easy.
It is done. In proof of this, this book is presented in the form of information. The source of proof is every awakened human being.
Is. Popularization through the method of human being being the inspiration and factor for human beings in the experience based tradition.
Does.

The idea of ​​freedom from illusion has been present in human tradition since ancient times or in the distant past. i.e. free from illusion
The assurance of existence is heard in Vajjamay from the distant past, their language has been the salvation of life. Language
Just as it is prevalent. Mainly the nature of bondage, the need for liberation, its expediency


<newpage>

76 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

And this main issue of popularization has been the object of awakening expression. this right now
Understanding existence, understanding coexistence, understanding development, life through empirical method.
Cognition, awareness of life, understanding of chemical-physical composition and disintegration became possible. In order to make such realizations
I have attained more than one human level of understanding. From this evidence it follows that its
Popularization is possible.

The original person, who verifies through research, is in the relationship of truth, solution, justice and awakening.
Presents itself as evidence. Only such verification can be called vaddamaya. both of these
After the situation occurs, the presentation should become understandable along with the authenticity of the original person.
In the form of the original person, the other person is also a proof of having awakened awareness. intuitive expression of understanding
It is only in co-existence in effort that being a complete thing is experienced in, for, for, the human being himself. by this method
Empirical study method verifies the empirical method. meaningful destination of study
The things pointed out through study become meaningful as they are properly understood. This experienced man
Only then one becomes successful. Such a situation is referred to as “experiential spiritualism”.

In the human tradition after awakening, the purpose for which is to become spontaneous and awakened human beings who want all the good.
Life was seen to be meaningful in a simple way. Human solution, prosperity,
It proves fearlessness, coexistence, autonomous human, family human, system human and society human.
In this, it is seen that every human being has ownership, freedom and rights, hence its universalization.
It has become expedient. Life is all about simple purpose, awakening and awareness. alertness, its
In continuity, happiness, peace, contentment and joy are found to remain intact. this awakened human being
It is natural for a (divine man) to be glorified in, through, and authentically. this self-discipline
And there is ultimate freedom. This is the destination form of motion. It is destiny's natural way to prove this. This way
Evidence has been shown to be meaningful in the human tradition, so further types of anatomy await.
There is no need. Creation in all the veins of all the races in human tradition in this decade
The main part of it has been seen to be medhas and it is completely rich. Now only the awakened tradition
That's what is needed. It is natural for empirical evidence to be meaningful through popularization method.
This purpose of freedom from illusion and bondage is accessible in human tradition.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism

To live in the all-human system in an awakened tradition, to participate in the overall system
It is natural, inevitable and necessary. Living by living in the system is proved in the family only.
Is. At its core, autonomy is an essential condition for humans. The solution is a function of living in the system,
It has been seen to be a proof of prosperity and a formula for fearlessness and coexistence. autonomous human form first
It has been made clear. Such autonomous human awakened education system, system and policy should be made available to all.
She goes. This is the formula of human tradition free from illusion (bondage). In the order of its implementation, family-oriented
To be formed, realized and implemented in the form of self-rule system, village family and world family.
There is a coincidence of complete possibility and necessity.

It became clear who gets bonded, why and how? What is it like in bondage? pain of illusion
By what method is it strengthened? Which types of illusions free us from bondage? The main point in this is life itself
With awareness one becomes free from the bondage of illusion, this has become clear.

Jeevan Sahaj in ten action verbs which is detailed in the table in the form of 22 conducts.
It has been made clear. According to the above table, for the systematic study of awakened behaviour, “human
A discipline has been presented in the name of “Consciousness Psychology”. Here are the ten easy steps of life
And in this mutually inspired, coordinated work method, the form of awakening and the order of liberation from bondage are as
Presented as seen.

In life, mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul are five inexhaustible forces and hope, thought, desire, Ritambhara and
The five inexhaustible powers of authenticity are ready to be certified. of which hope, thought, desire
Considering the body as life, considering the body as the source of happiness, division is the basis of the system.
Considering it as a basis and collecting more and more things as a means of happiness, all this is mainly
The nature of the activity in the form of illusion continues to be revealed. In this sequence, mainly temptations according to the age of the body
It has been seen to be excited by the method, to be defeated.

Awakening starts with the method of 'thinking power' while the bondage of illusion starts with the method of 'hope, thought, will power'.
Has been witnessed. This is the main point which is possible for every person to understand. Because taste, comparison,
These five forces – thinking, perception and experience – are always meant to be expressed in life.


<newpage>

78 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

On the basis of considering the body as life, selection of things useful for the body i.e. dear and beneficial for the body.
If you go to do it then you will definitely get profit. By this method, when human selection of favorite, interest and beneficial things is done.
Does this, this work extends to illustration.

Taste according to choice because taste is based on considering the body as life.
Analysis, analysis in relation to body bordering and body useful objects according to analysis and
Its depiction was found to be edited. Love, interest, profit do not become the object of borderline comparison and contemplation.
Because on the basis of all these being taste oriented, again all this is based on taste or pleasure. total
Bhog method is also appropriate in the sense of taste. All tasting takes place through the five senses. other words
All the tastes take place through the five senses of knowledge and the five senses of action. This is what the entire human race
Accepting the program itself is a sign of confusion. A human being within this limit always remains away from the direction of all auspiciousness.
Is. As a result, suffering from countless tortures; as suffering from grief, sorrowful pangs
Has been observed. All this was the result of accepting illusion as truth. Such as mirage or rope-
Sarpavat becomes the formula for defeat. In this sequence, it is important to consider life as life and body as body.
mandatory. It is very essential for every human being to understand reality, reality and truth as they are. In this
Only three issues come to the fore - existence, life and humane conduct. This is in human, from, of
Recognized as fundamental conduct for.

Human beings recognize every thing on the basis of its behavior. living on this identity
It happens. The result of subsistence itself is found to be there. This is generally known to everyone. coexistence
To know and accept the things of every state in terms of their form, qualities, nature and religion in a natural way.
It is a very necessary condition and on the basis of this it becomes possible to identify. to recognize the right thing
It is natural to get the desired results as a result. to recognize something without knowing it
are found to be without basis. Every situation becomes a cause of satisfaction when done with understanding.
Whatever you do without understanding, whether it is a believer, a tempter or a fearmonger, it will always result in defeat.
And it becomes a reason for torture. With this method the entire illusion work is explained. any number of generations
Keep repeating the delusion again and again. The result of delusion is found to be pain. Man satisfied with confusing results
Can't live.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 79

When man becomes frustrated with confused working methods and imaginary methods, then the pain of illusion is at its peak.
Is. Only then does the need arise for the method of liberation from illusion or awakening. It matures during the transition period and
There are conditions that occur with older humans.

The different conditions of all three bonds become clear in humans. Desire for bondage at the height of bondage
It has been seen to be in the form of pain, frustration, torture. This human tradition gets confused in intuitive functioning.
The results that occur in the form of traditions. It mainly involves ideological and practical harmony.
Ignoring it, the contradiction in it has an important role because the act of portraying is the bondage of desire.
Work as a matter of paramount importance is reflected in human livelihood till the end of the twentieth century.
Considered as the basis of. All these successes and failures, fear, temptation, beliefs and ideals.
They came into existence in the form of centres. In this situation, among all the human beings on this earth, only among the believers,
There appear to be (at least) some people. Some people get their way through temptation and faith.
Considered meaningful. Only a few people remain tortured by temptation and fear, there is hope in this
Bonding has been found to be predominant. Hope and thought are bound by faith, suffering from temptation and fear.
has to happen and those who seek success only in faith remain minimal, their ultimate goal
Only happiness remains. All this until we get public respect and happiness in our situation.
One is seen to be unhappy in this situation.

Asha Bandhan is counted as all activities for running towards happiness through the senses.
The bondage of thought is evident from the way any person or community considers its own idea to be superior. Desire
The bond becomes clear more and more in order to clarify the superiority of the creative work. also illustration
It is clear from the law.

From the analyzes explained above, the nature of illusion and how the pain of illusion occurs, these facts should be kept in mind.
Need to be kept in. In relation to fearlessness and awakening also through empirical system and method.
All related issues have been highlighted. To further clarify this, in practical evidence
Certifiable communication is presented. Justice, Dharma (Solution) and Truth Realization in Empirical Method
It is found to occur only together. It has been seen to this end that with suffering from delusions
Acceptance of life itself becomes a necessity of simple things. Due to this necessity, senses in life
The need to seek freedom from lust remains strong at its peak. it's a coincidence


<newpage>

80 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It has been seen from the method itself. This combination automatically leads to existence and destiny through coexistence system in a natural way.
Remains expedient as per order. This pain and destiny is just a combination of natural expediency. such an incident
First of all it happens to one person or can be revealed by one person. This 
We call it the function of research or practice. The research done through the above method is considered educational
Making it public through law remains an essential task. This advance in research-
Is the process. This is well known.

Basically this event is the experience itself. Awakening is possible only through the easy method of experience and the proof of awakening is easy.
Remains appropriate in form. That is why there is continuity of experience after experience. this existence
The accepted things of life like justice, religion and truth were seen as simple splendor. precise viewing language
Experience is action itself. Solution and justice are always included in such an experience. in the same way thinking
That is, in the process of interview, the solution and truth remain visible. Not only this, the system and
In a situation of living in the sense of participation in the system, justice, solution and truth remain proven in practice.
Is. This is an empirical study. Completeness of experiential living is essential in human tradition only.
Appears as. Its expediency means the pain of illusion and the freedom or awakening
It was also necessary to complete the incidents through expediency, combination and coincidence. immediately after this
The pace of popularization starts automatically. It is naturally accepted by all human beings.
Is. Just like everyone needs justice, religion i.e. universal system should be a united society, in true understanding
Should come. Because this life is easily accepted, life remains accepted without understanding it.
Is. That is why it is necessary for everyone.

Nature and evidence of salvation

There have been discussions about bondage and salvation since ancient times or from the distant past. Bondage is basically a form of illusion
It has become clear. Such an illusion persists until awakening despite fear of awakening.
The issue has also become clear. After this, awakening and awareness are the only destinations to be seen.
Get. It is basically the grandeur of thought, depiction, concept, experience and thinking, which is the mentality.
Has been seen as. The whole form of illusion is hope, thought, desire (depicting) as beloved, interest, beneficial.
It is the activity of jealousies. The concept of order in the system of fear and temptation makes humans selfish,
Ignorant, sinful, committing mistakes and crimes; Considering this, establishing complete plans is


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 8

There is an expansion of delusional activities. Inspiring to follow this tradition from which
Freedom from selfishness, sin, ignorance as a program of religious thrones and prevention of error, crime
Stopping crime and stopping war from war is seen as a program of thrones.

Every generation has been hearing the discussion of salvation and bondage from the thrones of religion. Moksha supreme or ultimate achievement
Or described as the ultimate event. Even though there may be differences in the time of telling this, every religious scriptures refer to salvation.
Propound supreme. Along with this, the concept of heaven and hell also got incorporated in the human psyche.
Have done. The nature of bondage on this issue can be studied in a manner that leads to confusion in life activities.
One has to suffer. The possibility of awakening is always present in life itself. this is the basic fact
Every human being was seen to be resolved only through awakening. Such awakening points:-

4. Seen as being awakened in existence and as being universally accessible. that's why this
Experiential spiritualism has been presented in a studyable manner.

2. Experience is appropriate in life itself, from life itself, for life itself. As-human life and body
It is in the combined form of and that it sustains life in the body. These two facts have become clear.
Life itself remains confused and suffers from the pain of bondage. body and world
Suffering from sensory deprivation and all kinds of disorder through imagination or
Suffering was seen to be proportionate to the understanding of the disorder. Every human being knows this fact within himself.
It is easy to identify through inspection and testing.

Every human being wants freedom from pain. This awakening is the source and possibility of spontaneous expectation. Life
Through spontaneous activities, one can realize and see justice, religion, truth and prove its proof.
This is complete awakening. All the activities taking place in Drishtapad, life should be known and accepted in an easy way.
It has been found to be in the form of recognizing and subsisting. The entire thing to know and believe is life knowledge,
Coexistence philosophy is knowledge and humane conduct is knowledge. infinite planets in existence - round massive object
Is included - whose observer is only human. Regardless of how they are, how many there are, what they are? of these facts
There is no explanation. Similarly, in the earth there are four states of matter, life, life and knowledge, there are simple things.
The viewer is also human. In one way or another, every human sees all these things. together with each
It is appropriate to see the functional things as included in the broader understanding. All the immovable objects are
Everything is seen to be moving along with the earth. The earth itself is imagined to be engulfed in vastness.


<newpage>

82 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Comes in, becomes clear from the study. Imagination, life, easy work, glory. total existence in imagination
The process of matching became clear. Imagination means the movement of vague hope, thought and desire. This
Thus, human awareness can be achieved only towards explanation through imagination.

This fact of what existence is like has been explained in “Existence and evolution of atom in existence”.
The answer to how much is it keeps emerging naturally through the awakening of every human being. entire human existence
Does not include the meaning of necessity. The entire existence of human natural language in another language
Does not fit within the limit. This also shows that the entire existence is more than human needs.
It is there. In existence itself, extensive and infinite units are seen to be indivisible, in understanding
Comes. Seeing this is a natural expediency of human awakening. Thus the explanation of how much is
Makes sense. The answer to why is thus clear is that co-existence is the nature of the entire phenomenon.
Is clear. The indivisibility of infinite things is visible in the universal object itself. like this forever present
Only humans pose the question of why existence exists. Man is also an indivisible unit in existence.
Is. Whatever is being seen and understood in the present, publishing it in the present is the only meaning of existence.
The obvious significance is obvious. The purpose of whatever exists is its continuity. This
Thus the answer to all three questions becomes clear.

'Experiential Spiritualism' is also ready to point out this fact. experience existence
is found. Before experience, understanding is found in the form of knowing, accepting and recognizing. it
Conceptualization of truth through study is sanskar. The idea and depiction remained the same in its previous form.
Is. This is Shruti, Smriti, Words and Imagery. any number of activities based on words and illustrations
Man edits all this and is seen struggling with instability and illusion in instability.
Is the main reason. That is why after remembering and depicting, somewhere there is instability and uncertainty.
Just publishes. To this extent we have been suffering till the end of this twentieth century. of stability
Acceptance is only in the form of understanding; as a result, justice, solution and truth are proved in practice.
Such understanding is the glory of knowing, accepting and recognizing. This process leads to awakening in life itself in a natural way.
is the desired process.

Experience in existence has been seen as nature, which is present in existence (at large). stay in power
It is on the basis of energy control, balance and conservation that it has been seen to be an equilibrium energy source. that's why


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 83

Control and protection remain constant in nature. Hence the control in power is clear. this is called spiritualism
It is given or the other name of power is spirituality. Spirituality by another name is the harmony of energy and spontaneous existence.
The form is. Since the basic pole of co-existence is stable and determined, human beings also need certainty, stability and
Its continuation wants to be glorified in the form of tradition through spontaneous method, it is always expedient. This
The aim of experiential spiritualism is to make it clear.

Experience in existence itself is the constant source of freedom from illusion. Its sequence is studied through empirical method,
The only direction and solution is to express through empirical method. Four stages of entire existence
The system of studying has been provided in “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence”.

The thing to be experienced is the present coexistence in the form of spontaneous coexistence of all four states. Existence
To be experienced in, to be understood through empirical method, it has become easier through this method that the situation is understood as truth.
To have the sense of existence in oneself, which is also human nature, saturated in being. matter-consciousness as coexistence
The study process of understanding nature in its present form happens naturally. to exist
Direction and angles are recognized in the mutual interaction of natural objects. like two objects
Wherever they are established, mutuality remains present in them in a reciprocal manner. meaning of orientation
It's about being face to face with each other. All such aspects are found to occur in the meaning of Abhyudaya only.
Its basic formula is to be in the form of a system, each with its own essence, each such aspects
Provides sense of opposite direction.

Every one is filled with infinite aspects within himself. all side angles with a point in any one
Keep making them, no matter how many more can be made, more can be made. Such a situation remains expedient. This
In type unit, infinite angles and direction are found to be clear in reciprocity because every
The object is visible.

Nature of salvation according to idealistic thought

God considered mysterious and omnipotent with authority over/in creation, state, and rhythmic actions
Is. This basic belief was propounded in various religious texts appearing in various forms.
According to most of these mystical God-centered ideas, the origin, condition and
Being, it was considered to be rhythm. Some of those thoughts and philosophies also accept this, rendering


<newpage>

84 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It means that something like God is present or contained in the hearts of living beings. which is called soul
Is. Some people believe in the existence of living beings only, some people also believe in the soul in living beings. In the original text both of these
Those who do not believe in this are called pure carnalists. That is why materialists also have their own views on religion.
Because they believe that God creates the body. Earth, water, minerals are all created by God.
are objects. They remain in existence as long as God wishes. It is only by the will of God that all this happens.
Receive.

The issue of liberation is related to living beings. It is the living being that sustains the body. entangled in the cycle of birth and death
Is. Due to the bondage of karma, one travels between heaven and hell or until God leaves the body and becomes free.
Until he does, he waits for God. God bless you by rendering it in such a variety of ways.
Only if it happens, there is assurance of salvation. Work, method, ritual in every sect to get God's blessings
And the rituals are written down. Consider him as the bearer of those religions that inculcate him.
Let's go. Those who are cultured also become cultured and accept allegiance to those religions. mainly of values
Identity, name, culture, caste, education, religion and ritual, these are mainly important in every religious tradition.
It is accepted by the followers of tradition.

As far as education is concerned, this is a form of education different from the Dharma-Karma Shastras in the current scientific era.
And the work got done. It can be called science education or business education. technology in education
Science has been adopted by all the languages, sects, religions, castes, opinions and creeds of this earth. of religious traditions
Whatever marked characteristic or identity was created as a way to celebrate someone's birth,
The way of celebrating the occasion of marriage and the condolence of relatives on death of someone.
It happens by the way of expressing. All sects continue to consider their own method as superior.

Every community has maintained different types of sadhana-practice traditions to attain the blessings of God.
In this, everyone's destination is considered meditation and samadhi. Various methods for such fixed meditation
They are established according to their respective traditions. The proposed meditation activities completely
It is done with the aim of being limited and one-pointed. Some even become successful in this.
To be successful means that the output of ideas is considered to have minimal or no meaning. this kind of mentality
Being silent is also considered. Being thoughtless is also considered. This is called Kaivalya state or supreme happiness.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 85

The condition has been considered. The noteworthy fact is that in such a situation it is not possible for them to have any program.
Would.

On this issue it has been experienced that after Nirvichar (Samadhi) there is no practical
No program is produced even according to hope, thought and desire. As a result, after Samadhi,
It is not necessary to prove the use of a person. Its basic element was identified in such a way that ideas
The origin of has been seen to be based on some or the other illustration process. emergence of complete ideas
“Have, should and do” depends on these basic poles. It's "I have something to do, I have
There is something and I want something” This is Dhruv. Ideas can arise in all people. Idea
In the absence of emptiness, man becomes no link to survival. That is why after such samadhi
Or information about the body becoming calm while in samadhi has been presented in the form of stories.
If the person in samadhi remains alive (with the body) for some days, months or years, in such a situation the same
It is seen supporting the rendering of the original texts of the tradition. So it becomes clear
It was said that imposing prohibition along with “have, have, should” became the formula for being thoughtless. Astu, complete
As long as thought remains limited to the method based on depiction, the action organs, sense organs and
The relative naturalness remains the basis of “is, has to, should”.

Such ideas do not propose any solution; rather, the opposite of the solution creates a crisis of problems.
The results of every idea and program can be seen. That's why we started considering the world as a form of sorrow.
Are. This made it clear that whatever has been written so far, from sacred texts to general texts,
All this has happened is an illustration based publication only. In this sequence it has also become clear that Samadhi and
Not only has no healthy family been formed on the basis of a samadhistha person, let alone a society. during meditation
It is not possible for a person to be a partner of family, society or system during the period of sadhana. Thus
During the time of sadhana and after successful sadhana, the only way to become knowledgeable is to think about Shujyaata.
People of all religions tell different types of solutions. He did not appear to be useful to humans.

Connected to this event, another event was prepared – man doing activities conducive to heaven.
Could. For this, divine rules and laws were explained. The rules of every caste, every varna, every ashram-
Following the laws and religious scriptures is the only way to go to heaven.
Are. Following such rules and regulations was considered a virtuous act. such rules and regulations in various ways


<newpage>

86 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

It was formulated and interpreted in various ways in the booklets of those called religion. rules of whatever caste and religion
Only those whose activities are accepted in the form of law (divine rules and regulations) get heaven.
Gets it. People of other types of religions cannot get that heaven. People of every community religion who
Those who follow and approve of the sacred texts say and believe all this. notable
The phenomenon is that diverse communities continue to strengthen their beliefs on the basis of various sacred texts. Above
They also maintain their stated identity. Despite this, one such behavior is proven to be universal.
It could not be done, which is accepted by all the religions. That is why from ancient times till now there have been mutual communities
The wall of one's own and another's in each family, the wall of one's own and another's in the reciprocity of every individual,
In reciprocity, the wall of own and stranger remains.

Along with this, the variations in worship, worship and its methods have their own excellence and importance.
Came to flourish with. In this order also human beings and communities are individualistic, because all worship, prayer,
Worship is always individualistic. Even in group prayer and worship, every person maintains his prominence and superiority.
Presenting is also found. Prayers mostly involve the glory of God, the welfare of the world, one's own salvation,
The desire to destroy the enemies remains contained. Whereas the welfare of the individual is included in the welfare of the world
and the nature of man's salvation is not yet studyable on this earth by any traditional method.
found to be. This whole activity came about due to a combination of Arsheya Gretha statement and faith.
Faith means “accepting without knowing”. Another noteworthy fact in this is that 'self'
The study is still awaited. Some traditions have already mentioned on this issue, only the holy texts
It is believed that body is life. Some people believe that there is a body and a living being. Some body, creature,
It is believed that there is a soul in every living being. All these were created by God's mechanism or by God's will, became glorious and attained destruction.
Are there.

Whereas on this issue, from existential human-centric thinking method, development is possible only in co-existence and
Development, awakening sequence, awakening has been seen in the form of material state, vital state, living state, knowledge state.
It has been made clear to be in the form of. With this, in the state of knowledge, there is bondage due to illusion and liberation due to awakening.
It happens. Out of which bondage is analyzed in detail as bondage of hope, bondage of thought and bondage of desire.
Have done.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 87

These three types of bondage become the source of complete happiness only by accepting the body as life and by indulging in the senses.
The result of believing was found to be an illusion. While life to express its awakening
The body is a means, the senses are a medium. Human tradition is the formula for awakening life
And there is an explanation. This is the natural point of definite demarcation of illusion and non-illusion, awakening and non-awakening.
The throne of education, throne of kingship and throne of religion are incapable of assimilating these realities through their past methods.
Have been. In other ways, the intellectuals who hold them have been deprived of doing research on these issues. that's why
This fact has been lost sight of in human tradition. Incorporating it into tradition is what makes this “experiential
The aim is “spiritualism”.

The reason for suffering is in the form of bondage of three views which are continuously active in life, i.e. love, interest and profit.
Every person can verify by introspecting within himself. justice, religion and
Awakening to truthful views is the formula for liberation from bondage. Justice naturally occurs in human relationships with each other.
These are facts to be proven. It is related to the inseparable present value, character and morality of every human being.
Gets certified. In humane conduct, conduct having all the three dimensions mentioned above is seen.
Unless this conduct is full of humanity, it is not possible for these three dimensions to complement each other. it
This is indicative of the fact that humans are capable of behaving humanely only when they are awakened. to this
It has been thoroughly tested and inspected. Awakening means life knowledge and existence philosophy
Knowledge, humane conduct is due to being proficient in knowledge. Humane conduct in every student, from
It is because of being accessible. Activities of experiencing existence as co-existence is the ultimate truth
Has been named “experiential spiritualism”. In this way we can easily come to the conclusion that
That the possibility of every individual being awakened is expedient. Awakened human being as autonomous human being
Is found to be evaluated. Such autonomous human beings have self-confidence, respect for superiority, talent
And balance in personality, social behavior, ability to be self-reliant in business, process, knowledge,
Is well versed in philosophy. Only such human beings can behave humanely as family human beings.
Certifies. One dimension in humane behavior is to recognize mutual relations in the family, values
It has been seen as a means of subsistence, evaluation, and achieving ambivalent satisfaction. Instead of this in all human beings
is found to be. The possibility for this is always expedient. It is basically human centered study, thinking
It is seen to be successful only on the basis of.


<newpage>

88 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The second dimension in humane conduct is morality, it is seen to be complementary to character, that is,
Good utilization of wealth in the form of body, mind and wealth - to be meaningful in the form of security. That is, in a character full of humanity,
From, for this morality is found to be complementary. That is, the method of making good use of money, the method of protection itself.
There is morality. On the basis of this evidence, the proper use of meaning through the protective method, protection through the proper use method.
The purpose is clear. Therefore, the principle of good utilization of money for security and the principle of security
It is a supplement for good use. Hence, from this, the second dimension of morality in conduct becomes intuitive purpose.
is clear. This is the expectation of every human being or the expectation of most human beings. as every human being
He wants proper use and security of his body, mind and wealth.

The third dimension of humane conduct is character. Nature of character: Swadhan, self-possessed, compassionate
Identified as work-behavior. character's action as a social rule
is found to be. The fact that the word society indicates integrity and its working form, life, spontaneous perfection.
(Awakening) has to be certified in human tradition through the medium of body. every humane behavior
It is natural for a human being to be a prosperous and meaningful person. Along with this, every
There is a feeling of its need in humans. The definition of Swadhan is - i.e. it is the form of work,
Money received from rewards, rewards and prizes. Basically the nature of money, utility and beauty value
It is found to be in the form of finished items. Like food, shelter, adornment, television, television listening and
These are distant things. In all these, it is human who evaluates the utility value and art value. Such
All things (wealth) are found to be accomplished through human effort and planning. someone's such money
It also exists in the form of ownership, the planning on natural opulence is evident only in the fruits of labor. This way
The fruit itself is the reward of labour. It is natural for Paritosh to be someone's Swadhan. to one's own wealth
Paritosh is the noun for the act of transferring, from, for, or offering in spontaneous happiness. award
Money received as a result of any meaningful event, work, evidence, publication, expression, communication or publication
The act of more than one person coming together to offer money in celebration
Is. The money received from these three types comes under the name of Swadhan. Utilize such wealth with body and mind,
Every human has the right to security.

The purpose of self-man/self-man has been seen from this method and basis that in the order of social creation, a woman-
Man's body is natural due to combination of human anatomy or necessity for tradition of progeny.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 89

Activity is also a legally necessary event. According to the anatomical method, youth is its basis. working method
It is a necessity to maintain human tradition. It is a necessity to live in a systematic manner.
The meaning of system is access to justice, access to production, access to exchange, the source of which is humanitarianism.
Education-culture and health-restraint are activities only. Due to this, it is also easy to have a family tradition.

The form of compassionate behavior as per the need (in a way without the walls of one's own or someone else's) meaning
Good use is work. These are especially linked to the bonds of duty and kindness in rich family relationships. awakening
The sphere of influence of mercy remains with every prosperous family and every human being. every family should be prosperous and
Kind behavior based on being resolved has been found to be meaningful. compassionate behavior
The entire expression of this is a form of participation in the overall system. Not only this, including the system source
There is a form of participation in the system. In this way, the act of compassionate behavior is meaningful and its
The necessity is clear. Basically, all this was propounded in the aim of a united society and universal system and
Is enforced. Its result is solution to human needs, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence. it's empirical
It is only through the system that every human being finds meaning. Hence, humane behavior in coexistence
A unified society-universal system was seen to be completed only through empirical method and with knowledge of life.
Which is found to exist as a source in itself. Humane behavior is meaningful only in family human position
Can happen. The importance of justice remains proven in the family. On this basis i.e. family is human
On the basis of the system being human, the evidence of freedom from bondage becomes clear. Justice is easy and natural.
Freedom from the bondage of confused hopes, thoughts and desires is natural. This shows that justice delivery
Development of ability itself is the testimony of freedom from bondage. It is only due to body or attachment that human beings become complete types.
Does injustice and misdeeds. Every human being can assess this in every situation. family human law
To prove the capability and capacity to deliver justice at every time and in every situation (in all humane circumstances).
It is easy to do. This is primarily the proof of salvation. Such a family is a complete way of living as a human being.
The illustration itself is a depiction of the social structure.

The source of freedom from bondage, the possibility of life itself, has become clear through the Sahaj method. the entire existence
There is arrangement. The existence of all things in existence in the form of a system with its essence is a testimony to this. Existence
It can be expressed in the form of system only through human awareness. Human existence is also a natural expression.
Man also has to learn the art of living, thinking style, experience, learning in the form of a system along with his self.


<newpage>

90 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is a meaningful form of humanistic education and culture. Existence by empirical method only by force of experience
The art of living, the power of experience is found to be strengthened by the art of living. Such confirmation is the celebration in human tradition.
Is. Every person wants to be festive. The fruit of awakening is the source of celebration.

It is only through awakening that every person becomes certified. Awakening in the order of experiential expression
Awakening and alertness are evident. Being awakened in the human system proves to live as a system.
Can happen. This Pad i.e. Jagrut Pad is full of action. Being active also means being humane.
All work that can be done by law is accomplished by law. It is physical, verbal, mental, created, caused,
Found to be done through approved method. This also indicates the expansion of human spontaneous awakening. these
The glory of the bases has been pointed out effectively. Its meaning is to live in justice and order.
As a result, the universality of the system should be formulated, explained and glorified in the human natural society.
Gets it. In such a unified society, the human who acts as the source of the universal system, the divine human, the divine
Is human. This thought is a form of freedom from bondage. Among these, divine human conduct is proved
Has been seen to do. This position has been named awakening. Their working form should be considered as a united society and
As a source of universal order, knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, and evidence of humane conduct.
Is found to be in. Awareness is the basis of proof. Every person wants to be proof. that's why
Divine humanity is desired and necessary in human tradition. In this state, there was evidence of liberation from bondage.
goes. This is the essence of liberation from bondage. Salvation is found to be proved only in conduct
Is. Behavior has to be witnessed in action itself. Being the light of the entire existence, humanity,
It is natural for divine humanity and divine humanity to also be highlighted.

Bandhan Mukti Krama, Mukti (Moksha) and Practice

Experience in co-existence proves the spontaneous purposes i.e. liberation from bondage is visible only in the process of awakening.
Is. The human unit (the entire human unit) has been following the sequence of identifying and subsisting since its inception.
Have continued. As a result, race, color, caste, language, country, time, direction, use of goods (for consumption),
Efforts have been made to identify more and less. All these processes are confirmed in the awakening sequence.
Certification of awakening is still awaited. various types of community established so far
Traditions cherish their superiority in the form of egoism (in the form of confused judgments) and see it in the present.
Is getting. In this basically the common pole point is to identify the human race i.e. the entire community traditions.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 9

Was deprived of. For this sole reason the conflict tendency of human beings or all communities or most
The community accepted its preparation. It became clear to assume superiority through this confused method. evidence of
This is it till now. Adept with strategic means and technology, to exploit other countries and communities
Habitual community; Countries, developed countries and developed communities are being called and considered. This
It becomes clear from the evidence how the importance of fraud was established in the name of development.
Is. This mention here draws attention to how appropriate is the need or necessity of getting rid of illusions.
Presented to get.

Regarding freedom from illusion, it has already been brought to mind that one has to be awakened in justice, religion and truth. to wake up
The ultimate thing is life itself. The creation, form, power, strength and goal of life are the same in every human life.
The goal of life is only awakening. This test is verified by observation in every human being. every human being
To make the unknown known; It is in the process of attaining the unattainable. In this sequence, every human being knows, believes,
One is striving to become proficient in the process of identification and subsistence. Awakening is the basis of freedom from illusion
Is. The points of awakening are justice, religion, truth, simple evidence and tradition. its working form (jagriti sahaj)
It has been clarified earlier. The experiences, concepts and thoughts in life are part of human tradition.
Awakening is the basis of being certified because life itself is to be awake, the body to be alive is to be cognizant and
It is the basis of sensitive actions. The source of vitality is life. to keep the body alive
It is only on this basis that life can prove its awakening and intentions in human tradition. For these purposes
The existence of human beings in the form of body and life is a natural process. Know this from this background
It seems every human being is thirsty for awakening.

Beloved, interest, profit, fear, temptation, faith, struggle, tendencies in subjects, desire for accumulation and convenience, all these
Clarifies the awakening sequence. An awakened life is easily the supreme desire. life expectancy without awakening
It is not fulfilled and human expectation is also not successful. Therefore, fearless expectation and easy success are universal.
Can be identified as a target. For this to be accessible to all, a united society, a universal system is necessary.
There is only one direction. Humanity is the only source to keep it balanced and controlled.
Humanity is the formula and explanation of the universal system, the united society. In order to recognize humanity
The method is found to be only Jagriti method. Awakening is a matter of choice for all human beings. That's why awakening
The only path towards this is clear for human beings only.


<newpage>

92 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Two conditions of complete life activity have been studied in humans. The first of these is - illustration
In accordance with, there is reflection and reversion of instinct and mind. The second is intelligence, mind according to experience,
Instinct, reflection and reversion of the mind. As far as reversion, reflection occurs on the basis of depiction
- He has become proficient in the work of illustration through the combination of hearing and seeing with eyes. all narrating activities
Is called Shruti. Such listening sounds, words, sentences, prose, verses, sutras, explanations, rhymes, rhymes, rhythms, etc.
Along with this man has developed the method of hearing. Along with this, languages ​​have also evolved. whole words
Presented by the name of any action, object, situation, motion, result, process, events. words without incident
If we start considering it as knowledge and start moving along with some incidents, then it will be called science. These incidents,
In useful form, there are things related to television, tele-audience and telecasting. Other than this
Whatever events have taken place for the strategic system, all have resulted in loss, problems and tribulations.
The reason has been evaluated. Even if out of compulsion, to promote one's ego (illusion bond)
Keep following the method. All production methods related to general aspiration are operational methods since ancient times.
As it evolved from. As far as improved species are established in agriculture, horticulture and horticulture work,
All of them became capable of being used by seed-based method and in the name of progress, modern seed multiplication was introduced.
As technology developed, it could not be stable with the seed-based method. Meaning of symbiotic stability
It is clear that there are plants, fruits and seeds after the seeds. maintain frequency or continuity in that manner
Method of keeping. On the contrary, after sowing the seed, the fruit seed does not match the original seed.
Instability has been said, this is also clear. All the basic basics related to tele-listening, television, telecasting etc.
The processes have been researched but not by important scientists. Like physics,
It was born out of a chemical accident - nothing like that happened. These events are the result of human innate imagination,
Karma happened in free order and it was considered scientific. still mastering these events
The activities are taught in the name of technology. In this way, science and technology speed up their
It has been seen to be inspirational in its own way. Just by having all this there is something qualitative in human nature.
Changes have taken place, nothing has happened. Well dressed, on good roads, traveling in good vehicles
Hua man is seen. War, fear and conflict have taken the most extreme form in this century.
Like primitive man, this human race has been suffering from fear, confusion, doubt and misgivings, even today this human race is visible.
Is. Vibhishika refers to the occurrence of fear by a human suffering from fear. such horrors


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 93

Being tortured, suffering, struggling due to the fear of inhumanity inherent in humans is seen in the most form.
Is.

The basic issue of conflict is more collection, more facilities and position. From position to convenience, from convenience to position
The impact of succession on generations right up to adolescence has been witnessed in this century.
Has happened. The result of conflict has been seen to be mutual destruction or more destruction of one and less destruction of the other.
Third, no result comes from struggle. Security of one, destruction of the other or mutual security, both
The conflict is not resolved through law. What is remarkable is that we think that by someone's destruction we will become prosperous.
The struggle is done as soon as possible. This struggle is not only with the regime and its rebel organizations, but also with the family-
Got to see it with the family and with the individual. This struggle is the culmination of the struggle.
Today paves a path or awakens a thirst for solutions. every struggle in expectation of peace
Or one hears that it has been started in anticipation of a solution. The remarkable thing is this collection
And there is no satisfaction point for convenience. All the struggle for this is in vain, only the cause of pain.
is found to be. Therefore, struggle itself is the manifestation of the zenith of bondage. solution and experiential
The entire thought, behavior, work, arrangement and conduct done according to the law is the evidence of freedom from bondage and
There is proof. Only through solution can the problem be freed and authenticity will forever be eradicated from deception, arrogance,
There is freedom from hypocrisy. Desire bondage, human actions in the most complex form, organized by freedom, imagination
Has happened. To be organized means to be human in the form of deceit, deceit, arrogance, hypocrisy with illusory thoughts.
Presented myself. This is a form of today's ugliness. This transformed freedom, justice,
The aim is to get solution and authentic rights. In this sense, “Experiential Spiritualism!
Has been presented before humans for consideration.

Justice is a process of realization in the form of relationship, value, evaluation, mutual satisfaction. this is what provides justice
It is indicative of ability. Relationships (all relationships) being mutually complementary is an eternal principle. his
Affirmation Coexistence, complementarity in coexistence is the desired, expected, glory of all human beings. Such verbs i.e. complement
Activities appear to have affirmative, protective, awakening and awakening purposes.
Affirmative actions include body nourishment, thought nourishment, work nourishment, behavior nourishment, knowledge and philosophy nourishment.
Can be seen in the form. Every person can experience this nurturing happening in different relationships.
Could. As in maternal relation, body nourishment, modesty protection; Modesty, conduct, body protection in paternal relationship;


<newpage>

94 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Affirmation and preservation of education, knowledge, philosophy in the guru-disciple relationship; Brother-sister, friend, husband-wife, partner-colleague
In all these relationships, expectations of all-round solution (Abhyudaya) were seen to be present in life naturally.
Is. Not only this, in all relationships or even in natural relationships, the expectation of solution, affirmation, nourishment, protection,
Necessity, tendency: Life naturally happens even in a partly confused state. fully awake in
The possibility of it happening is expedient. Its inevitability in the tenth decade of this century is expedient in itself.
It has happened that according to human history, only all-round solution and authenticity are the attainable destination.
In practice, participation in the universal system is work. Humane behavior as conduct
There is only one formula. In the formula of experience, the proof of experience is the formula for coexistence. as an analysis
There is only matter, life, soul and knowledge. In the form of achievement which solves human needs in an easy way,
The experience of prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence is a simple proof. Satisfaction, happiness, peace as expected in life,
Satisfaction is happiness. Coexistence is vastness in order to live in an awakened manner. all these bonds
There is evidence of salvation. Human beings are spontaneous manifestations done in an awakened manner. All these facts
It has been duly observed, understood, lived and finally humane conduct has been practiced in every
A person can be the bearer of all-round solutions, this is the significance of “experiential spirituality”.

Is.

The holistic solution is a function of awakening to coexistence within oneself, that is, coexistence of existence.
As a function of knowing, accepting and recognizing. This system itself is organized in a simple link-by-link form.
is found to be certified. In human tradition, order is a spontaneous expression. because autonomous human
It has been seen to be proved through humanistic education and only such autonomous human beings can become family, human and
Living and becoming certified as a human being is a natural process. Hence, autonomous human instinct
The expression remains full of the ability to participate in the family system and in the overall system.
Therefore, in every autonomous human system, it is easy to carry out participation for, from. Thus every
It is necessary for men and women to be autonomous.

Popularization of Jagriti method was also seen to be complete with humanistic education-culture and procedure.
Is. Humanistic education is full of power, nature, present and development, development and
Jagriti Krama Jagriti Sahaj Vidhi - Complementation, usefulness of matter, life, living beings and states of knowledge.
It is the study of sublimation. As a result of which every human being has autonomy and the right to live in a family system.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 95

It has become clear that participation in art and the overall system is spontaneous. Experience all these facts into existence
It is a function of being. Any person can prove its existence empirically. in
All-round based on studying all the facts empirically and becoming proficient in it.
Solution: Life remains accepted in a natural way. In order for such experiences to be accepted, justice, interview
It remains approved in advance. The meaning of justice and solution is the expression of natural dignity and glory.
It has been found in the sequence to be full of experience i.e. to be full of experience. experience, perception, resolution, contemplation
Delineation, comparison, analysis, tasting and selection done in a natural way, life is accomplished after awakening.
There are activities taking place. Awakening is the proof and also the symptom of freedom from illusion. characteristic of proof certified
The present is the catalyst for being. On the basis of these facts and processes, every human being can
The test is able to evaluate observationally. As a result, the empirical method of process and function
With musicality, every human family becomes possible to be glorious as a human being. his
Necessity and expectation are seen in everything and possibility is appropriate in everything. Astu, human
Wants to strengthen experiences through the art of living through an experiential method. it existed
Empirical system, method and policy have been seen to be meaningful and successful.

Human is the combined embodiment of life and body.

Existence is experienced.

, Life is felt in existence.

2. Every human being exists in the form of tradition in the combined embodiment of life and body.
3. Human beings are indivisible in existence.

4. The entire existence is nature permeated in being. It is present in these four stages.

5. All four conditions are proved on this earth.

6. Out of these four stages, only human beings can develop the thinking style and universal system through empirical method.
A unit capable of knowing, believing, recognizing, sustaining the art of living in the form of participation.
Is.


<newpage>

96 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

The art of awakened human natural living is the intact movement of human tradition. Analysis and Purpose, Purpose
And according to analysis, awakening, intuitive thinking style, experience in existence, the entire existence is divided into four states.
Being certified has been seen in the form of knowing, believing, recognizing, performing.

It is human beings who prove experience in practice. As a result, human natural expectation and life are natural.
It is natural to expect it to be universally accessible. That is why it is universally accepted. complete experiment general aspiration,
It is certified as an object of ambition. Use all this in the system, make good use of it,
It is proved in the sense of usefulness. This is its significance. This also shows that
It is only through morality that a human being is able to participate in the system. humanely
He deals with it. Is able to live according to value and evaluation or relationship, value, evaluation, mutual satisfaction
Is able to live in advance. This is the nature of the art of living happily, beautifully and contentedly. authenticity value,
Character is an indivisible source of morality. Authenticity is the spontaneous expression of experience in existence. total
Since existence is the fabric of the system itself, human beings also need to live in the system.
Stayed.

The experience of all four states is awakening. All four states of existence exist in a natural co-existence.
Being itself is the state of truth, object is the state of truth, and is formulated and explained as objective truth. Thus
Existence itself is the complete state, movement, formula and explanation. Existence neither decreases nor increases. its integrity
It has been observed to occur as of present. Situation truth in its form as nature united in being
It does exist. This existence is expressed in the form of development, complementarity, sublimation, awakening and authenticity.
It is clear to be. The truth of the object situation is seen in the form of place, time and direction. It's about reciprocity
The basis is seen to be a comprehensive explanation. Like more than one atomic fragment
In reciprocity, a certain distance between each other in which all parts agree for a certain behavior.
Remaining dedicated is visible. In this, fixed distance is in the form of country, fixed speed is in the form of time,
Only certain action (conduct) is interpreted as direction. Therefore in the interaction of many molecules
It is natural for space, time and direction to be clear in the mutual interaction of atomic bodies. Therefore in every earth
A certain distance between objects appears as a country. of the same earth
The fixed distance of objects or planetary spheres to each other i.e. country and direction both are clear and the action is taken.
It has been observed that time calculation is done in duration itself.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 9a

Objective truth is the explanation of the form, qualities, nature and religion present in every thing. each one his own environment
Due to being complete including each one, these four dimensions remain included and remain indivisible.
Is. It is clear that religion exists in its eternal form. Religion is clear in every situation. temperament,
Present in every unit in the form of values. This is also recognized as originality.
Originality can be identified only on the basis of religion and values. Every object is luminous.
The fundamental element of luminosity is religion and nature. Quality has always been seen to be in the form of motion.
It has been seen to be countable in even, odd and intermediate forms. Of these, the mediatory movement is religion and nature.
There is an explanation in the sense of originality and its integrity. As far as form is explained, shape is
Volume is in the form of a cube. Life being a conscious unit, being a single atom
Its shape, volume and cube remain clear.

Every evolving atom works including mass bonding and molecular bonding. every developing nuclear power
It is found to remain active only in. Every atom is an atom by composition. form of formation meridian
And being in the form of an independent part and being at a certain distance, coexistence is a natural functioning. dependent share
One has to remain active in a circular motion all around the middle. That is why every atom along with its path (surroundings)
Is atomic. In these, there is maximum inclusion of parts and there is more than one path of motion.
As the number of fractions increases, fractions also accumulate in the middle. This is the weight in atoms
There is a formula for binding. The method of working with parts is clear through the coexistence method. Similarly
In order to express the coexistence of atom with atom and molecule with molecule,
Has been published. The molecular structure itself is visible as a larger structure in the form of a planet or sphere. it completely
Existence is a daily effective act of spontaneous coexistence. After the evolution in the atom is complete (formation)
Become free from molecular bonds and mass bonds. This Chaitanya is found to be revered in the atomic life post.
Is. Such Chaitanya, after getting freedom from unit weight and molecular bondage, gets free from the bondage of hope along with its work path.
To be revered in the form of a worshipper, to have a shape of such a worshiper, to have an anatomy of such a shape
To remain composed (by Pindaj or Andaj method) is a natural program of existence. In continuation of this program
Human anatomy is also a natural process. After the bondage of hope in life, bondage of thoughts and desires
Freedom of action, imagination, activity, sequence of activities through the human body while the bonds become stronger.
As a result of that, there will be assessment, as a result there will be human dignity in the form of Jagritikram tradition, this karma
Freedom-Imagination and Awakening Systemically (because it is the destiny order) the sense of chaos-


<newpage>

98 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

It was natural to feel pain in realization. On this basis, there is a need to awaken, universal system
Asylum approval was seen. This is the integral part of human and holistic system.
The simple method for achieving solution, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence for all human beings is appropriate. with totality
In the course of human observation and testing, this fact was observed empirically.

Through the above analysis and complementation method, physical-chemical processes, change of particles in an atom,
There are many compositions glorifying the functioning of chemical substances through the complementary method of molecules, each
In the same order, this earth along with its atmosphere is also a creation, planets, spheres etc. are also a creation.
Is. This earth is also complete including its environment. The complementarity of this earth is the mutual planetary sphere, solar array,
Many solar arrays, galaxies in the form of groups of many solar arrays work in a complementary manner in mutual interaction.
What happened can be seen. This is the testimony of the law working as it is. Every planet in the solar array
Harmony is seen to be created only with a certain distance in reciprocity. Such coordination is the basis of the system
The form is. Because through such coordination, complementarity, sublimation and development can be seen only on this earth.
Is. The evolved atom is the conscious unit of life; Life sequence in hope bound organisms; hope, idea, wish
The sequence of awakening from bondage is as clear as that of a human being. The process of awakening is the stepping stone to the destination of awakening.
It was natural. Natural process means evolution, development, awakening sequence, awakening and its
It is from continuity. The process of development is also continuous in itself. Development is also continuous, awakening process is also continuous and
Awakening is also continuous. The form of awakening process is the acceptance of awakening through education and culture.
Is. After awakening, the human family, the universal system becomes easily prosperous. resulting awakening
After acceptance, the path to certification remains paved. Awakening of many human children through this method
Incarnating in order, paving the way in awakening, this is the self-rule and glory of the human race.

There is only self-rule, not governance. In the context of the system, its nature should be clarified in advance.
has been carried out. The rise of Swarajya glory is seen only through family-human means. in every family
To produce essential commodities for body nutrition, protection and social progress for the journey of the body.
The activities of also remain included. Relationship-Value-Evaluation-By mutual satisfaction or mutual satisfaction method
Revealing behavior and conduct basically means family. In such a family all three types of
The needs remain the same. In order to survive, there remains a need for production work.
This means that production work is also an essential element for the progress of family and society.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 99

Is. Therefore, through the method of relationship-value-evaluation and mutual satisfaction, family and society are based on formula and necessity.
Participation of every member of the family in greater production work through utility-complementation method. Family system
And this can be proved in the formula of social system. That is why access to justice for every family,
Ease of production, ease of exchange, ease of health-control, it is easy to be meaningful daily. whose source
It is found to be in the form of humane education, culture and health-control activities. This
This type of system paves the way towards universalism and the formula of a united society should also remain effective continuously.
is found. The basic formula in this is coexistence formula. From this meaning to this only through empirical method
Makes sense. Expression, communication and publication take place as a result of which every person becomes an autonomous human being, family
Human being, social system is certified as human. This experience is the dignity and glory of tradition.
Is. As a result of this, fulfillment and satisfaction of human needs and life's needs and its continuation becomes possible.

Intellectual, social and natural laws are the function of intellectual solutions.

Acceptance of experience in existence is the realization of existence and all-round solution. existence in itself
is present as coexistence; Always regular and organized. Due to this truth the human system also
The method to resolve in, from, for and prove prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence intellectually,
Meaning is found to be in the form of social and natural laws.

The system and participation in the system are visible in existence only as per rules. atom in itself system and whole
There is a form of participation in the system. In this sequence, molecules, molecular bodies, soil, stone, gem, metal,
Every structure and composition related to the vital state, the entire hereditary structure and composition are arranged in a regular manner.
Remain published as is. Material state, system including 'tva' (tva) through consequential method, prana state (life state)
The entire revelation of the system including the substance is through hereditary method, the entire revelation in the living world is hereditary.
The system with substance through method and the system with “tva” through the method based on culture (knowledge) in human nature.
is found to be.

The basic form of sanskar is acceptance made in the light of experience. This is the nature of the overall study.
Sanskar is to prove the acceptance of the entire existence as things worth experiencing. of culture
The meaning is that this is the activity presented through empirical method in the sense of completeness. Education as universal
Establishing order in the sense of a united society is a meaningful culture. This is proof of being cultured.


<newpage>

00 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Humane conduct and participation in the system. From this method it becomes clear that empirical
Establishing empirical facts through method. To establish means to have accepted natural evidence.
Is. The concept means constant source of happiness, acceptance and proof.

Man is seen doing all his work and thinking only in the expectation of continuous happiness. In this
To be successful is to have humane values, thoughts, work-behavior and experience. proof of success
The need of life and humanity is to be successful. It is well observed that life expectancy is fruitful.
With existence comes human expectation. Similarly, life with fruitful human expectations
Expectation bears fruit. Every person examines this fact within himself and draws conclusions through observation.
If we go then every human being is able to reach the place of achievement and satisfaction. This is mentioned here because
It is said that along with awakening, human usefulness, usefulness and purposefulness come into fruition. confused
Anything done with good intentions cannot be certified. This is what the confused method means
We do something without knowing; beliefs are also associated with it. tenth of this twentieth century
The assessment of the last decade is that fear is better than temptation and faith is better than temptation. fear and temptation
Conflict has been seen to occur on this basis only. What man sees in himself in moments of faith
That is called peace. The remarkable thing is that faith is gradually becoming conservative in some way or the other.
Takes you to the place of fundamentalism. In both these places fear and temptation are again at work.
Every person can see this clearly. So, the only direction after fear, temptation and struggle of faith.
And the path is an all-round solution.

Complete rules, various working systems, thought systems, behavioral systems remain alive in the sense of solutions.
From this, the entire solution system being formulated from the formula, the entire system becomes clear as a system with 'Twa'.
By living and existing as the whole system co-exists, human expectation, life expectation
'It is easy to be fruitful. Humans can prove this through testing and observation. where testing and inspection
There is a proposal to experience the facts in advance - all this is a form of contemplation practice. whether meditation
Be it illustration practice, subject matter practice, there will always be a human practitioner. Every human being is physically, verbally, mentally,
Through the done, caused and approved method, man keeps himself progressing in the mode of practice only. of which
Subject-based practice is found to be focused on sense-approach and illustration-based practice is found to be focused on analysis.
It is known for which Shruti and Smriti are found to be sources. Busy for collection of illustration practice facility


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 04

Stay was seen. Through reflection, human beings got certified as autonomous and family human beings.
goes. Every human being participates in the overall system with holistic solutions through empirical legal system.
Can sustain. This is also the highest purpose of awakening.

Along with the practice of contemplation, experiential acceptance occurs naturally in humans in a spontaneous manner.
it occurs. This becomes established as a ritual. Humane culture and reputation are the only stability of humanity.
It has been observed to be a point. It is an essential task to experience these truths. experience life
It is meant only in the sense of satisfaction, due to which the human needs are supplied. know from this
It turns out that it is due to bondage that tension and knots remain in humans. stress free after liberation
All activities are completed only through law. Here it is also understood that nature, speed, reputation
In this the system including the body remains intact. It has become clear that the nature of human being is humanity itself.
Humanity's innate, complete work, such as intellectual, social and natural rules, human nature, speed, reputation.
Subsistence is found in natural form. In this way, there is a need for awakening, nature, speed and reputation.
It is mandatory for. The pole of intellectual solution is acceptance of existence and being human. humans in existence
Being a unit of knowledge, all four stages between human being and existence are objects for study.
is found to be. Life prestige is only for being glorious in human tradition while living forever.
Coincidence has been observed because –

4. In human tradition, awakening and its proof are the source of satisfaction. Human need in satisfaction-life need
It is a balance of.

2. In human tradition, the need for purpose, function and proof of holistic solution remains the same.
Is. As a result, there remains a place for participation for every person.

3. Awakening of completeness and authenticity as well as unbroken society, universal system in all human beings.
It is appropriate for.

4. Autonomous human, family human, society human and system human dignity only through all-round solutions.
Is certified.

5. It is possible to know the unknown and attain the unattainable only through awareness.
6. Man becomes experienced in existence only through awakening or being experienced in existence is awakening.


<newpage>

402 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

From the above sequence, it became clear that it is natural to be resolved intellectually. This fact also awakens
It is indicative of. After awakening, every person naturally attains Asagraha Pratishtha with prosperity,
Khreh prestige is complemented, Vidya prestige is life wisdom, Simplicity prestige is coexistence philosophy.
In the past, Abhay used to work thoughtfully to enhance his reputation with humane conduct.
What happened can be seen. This is mainly an intellectual rule. Human beings endowed with such intellectual rules are natural
In this form, humane conduct is accomplished which is an indivisible splendor of values, character and morality. in which
Humane character which is self-respect, self-respect, compassionate work behavior. the unbroken social rules
Is affected as. Recognizing, living, evaluating values ​​in relationships as a result
Dual satisfaction is the form of human value. The proper use and protection of body, mind and money is morality. Although
Earlier too, social rules and natural laws have been explained in detail. awakening here and
It has been considered appropriate to recall the above facts with authenticity. The noteworthy fact here is that
Existence itself is regular in the form of coexistence and as a result the order in existence remains intact. humans also exist
is indivisible. Therefore, only by following the rules and regulations can a human being make human needs and life expectations meaningful.
Is.

Along with this simple intention, it is natural for every intelligent person to understand the fact that we
All-round solutions are achieved only through the awakening of liberation of all human beings from bondage. In such fullness of awakening,
For this, humanistic education and cultural method is the only solution. humanitarian education

The basic thing is life knowledge, existence philosophy knowledge, humane conduct knowledge. This human awakening tradition
It proves worthwhile.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 403

Chapter 6

doer, doer, enjoyer

Life itself is the seer – awakening is proved in human tradition.

The claim to see is inherent in human beings or in every human being. This left me wanting to see more
Lives. Most of the human beings have this claim and desire for whatever is visible to the eyes.
It is a well known fact that we are seen struggling. In the same sequence and according to the method of seeing, variations
Viewing the entire Earth from east to west, from the North Pole to the South Pole, and from the South Pole to the North Pole
took. On this basis, earth survey work was also completed. In the same sequence further planets and spheres,
The desire to see many solar arrays continued to develop. Earth's humans reach the moon in one generation
Went and came back. The Moon was said to be made of solid craters and stones similar to the Earth. there is water and
Verified that there was no vegetation. Told there is no air pressure. the man who went there is this
Had taken away water and air from the earth. Air must be necessary for breathing and water for drinking.
Due to this, a very big curious obstacle was removed that man could reach this earth from other earth.
Could. This has been a major achievement of this century. The positive side for humans in this is
God knows how long the Moon has been with the Earth and it still has a suitable environment for humans, animals and plants.
Not made. The environment on this earth has become prosperous enough for all this. This benefited humans. His
Later, through many experiments, other Earths were discovered which were assumed to be somewhere within the limits of this solar array.
Observed (satellite) by sending spacecrafts from different countries. Till now the fauna and flora in this solar array
No other earth rich in has been discovered. Most of the planets were found to be in a rare state. Many
The existence of more than one moon (satellite) along with the planets was also reported. All this is detailed in order to see
Assessment has reached man.

Whatever is reflected and influenced on the human being by the above mentioned method of seeing, all that is human.
For everyone it remains as an object of observation. The remarkable fact is that through the eyes or all the senses
The object seen is not visible in its true form. It is proved through survey that eyes
Only the largest part of the object is reflected. More than other systems


<newpage>

404 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is not possible. Many things come to human imagination through words and stories before the eyes.
Is. The imaginations based on such stories are not visible to the eyes. This is the main issue. of all mankind
The same incident keeps happening. No matter how much one has matured in the best practices, even if the general
No matter who the person is, every person can survey this fact. This is the main point, more than meets the eye
It is imagination. Also, imaginations are not visible in the eyes. This same pain more or less happens to every human being.
It has happened. The main basis of difference in this issue is the definition of seeing. As yet
Whatever is reflected on the eyes is the object of vision. On the basis of this belief, human beings
More powerful instruments than the naked eye could also be seen by making them. remote from equipment
Or even seen a very small thing. These instruments allow viewing of atoms and atomic fragments.
Claims have also been made and verification of seeing distant planets and stars has been done.

It is a well known fact that whatever is reflected in the eyes, on looking further, it is revealed that the human is
Whatever event and form is visible in the eyes remains only a partial part. in every situation
Motion is found to occur. In this sequence, the definition of form is shape, volume, cube.
Only a partial part is reflected in the eyes. Shape and volume, the cube is indivisible. whoever
The form is in the energy of being, it remains contained in the void, it remains limited from all sides. this is that thing
Means expansion or volume. Nature of shape: long, wide, high, thick, deep, round, flat,
Cylindrical, found to be in various numerical angular sizes. In all such forms, from mere shapes,
Only a partial part of the volume remains reflected in the eyes. Due to this, an object is present.
Is accepted. The aspect of acceptance is the functioning of the life aspect itself.

In every mutuality, in the mutuality of stone-stone or soil, stone, gem, metals, food-vegetation
In reciprocity, even in the reciprocity of matter and vital state, the process of mutual reflection remains.
Its principle is that “the image of the image always remains”. In this sequence, the image of man, including man
Remains with other nature also. existence mirrored in everything existing in spontaneous coexistence
It happens or exists only on the basis of equanimity. It is natural that every person has his own power,
Imagination and logic can prove on the basis of experiment test. to obtain the image
No human has to do anything. Every object situated in direct proximity has its image. This 
In the eyes of every person, everything appears to be immersed and surrounded in the present existence in a comprehensive manner.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 405

Is. Along with this, one more continuous proof is understood that being is transparent in every reciprocity because
In every aspect some limited objects (units) are found. limited items only
There is a reflection. The present existence is visible in a comprehensive form amid the interconnectedness of limited things.
This situation is visible to all human beings everywhere and at all times. Based on the fact that power is transparent
To be, to be seen. Because being exists in the midst of every reciprocity and only then in reciprocity
It is proved that there is a reflection. Along with the glory of being surrounded and immersed in such transparent power, every
That limited objects are energy-rich is proved on the basis of their activity. from is
It is also revealed that every limited thing is drenched in power itself. In this way every thing i.e. every limited thing
Being controlled, active and protected is also known only in power because existence neither decreases nor increases.
Therefore, the basic object of reflection is its form. The balance of energy and being situated in the midst of the mutuality of such forms
Is transparent.

In order to see with the eyes, all the adaptations exist naturally, while remaining appropriate, shape, volume.
It has become clear that a partial part of the body is being reflected in front of the eyes. from the shape reflected on the eyes
More volume, shape and volume always remain more dense. By this method which we see with our eyes
Its completeness is not visible to the eyes. This is the three dimensions mentioned in relation to form.
Evaluated regarding imaging and eye ability. Virtues, nature, religion inseparable with every form.
Stay has been made clear. Along with this, every person has qualities, nature, religion to some extent or the other.
There is a need and desire to understand. By this method it became clear as much as human can understand
Yes, it is not visible to the eyes. Everything is more than a reflection on the eyes. This imagination,
It is a matter of logic, experiment, study and experience. Now it becomes clear that the definition of seeing,
The meaning and significance has to be understood, what has been understood has to be explained. Every understanding is in the witness of experience
Is accepted. Every understanding is proved through empirical method. important qualification to understand
Is and experienceable capability is completeness, expressed and communicated on the basis of these two important activities.
And on the basis of being published, the position of seer, prestige in every person, from, to, to know, believe, recognize,
It is always advisable to survive.

Survey of human beings also reveals that despite being an active part of life, there is satisfaction from imagination, thoughts and desires.
It is not possible to get. The combined planning and action plans of these three can be used in any number of ways.


<newpage>

406 Intermediate Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Did this, due to which one or more human beings get necessary and easy achievements beyond human means.
Could not be witnessed. The combined plans of hopes, thoughts, desires, some of the diverse
Used in dimensions. Mainly used in war mode, governance mode, business mode, education mode.
The human natural expectation could not be proved by all these acts. human history as documents
Whatever I have kept in it is testimony to this. Therefore, “experiential spiritualism” is to this effect
Confirmation study has been presented to propose the concept of general plans in human tradition.
This is the glory of the post of seer. The testimony of this is the review of the past in human tradition itself, in the present
The systemic action plan for the system, in the future, from, to, is a strong and
It is a proposal acceptable to all human beings. This entire presentation is based on experience in coexistence.

It is natural that the historical failures described should be the basis for further research. In this order this fact
It has been realized that every human being has more imagination than the eyes. mathematics also
It is a manifestation of imagination only. An attempt to describe every phenomenon or form and properties in numerical form.
Happened. The quality itself has been seen to be in the form of motion. Mathematical activities also need to be expressed in human language.
is found. The function of calculation has been evident in all human beings. methodical use of such calculations
On the basis of doing, the work of understanding and explaining the three dimensions related to form - size, volume and cube.
Is completed. Along with this, an attempt was also made to bring speed related communication through calculation method. Mediator
Motion has not been expressed in mathematical language. Equiporous motions are characterized by increasing distance and decreasing distance, pressure.
And efforts to study the flow increase and decrease including assessing the results in various ways.
Has been done Both these odd and even movements are countable as charges only, whereas every object, every unit,
The atoms that are at its core are found to have order along with their essence in their very nature, speed and prestige.
Is. Whatever is expressed in existence as a system including substance, everything is in accordance with the mediating motion.
Seen to be working. Its working form and work prestige in human beings should become clear only through awakening based method.
Has been observed. Its proof is proved only in the form of expression based on justice, religion and truth. in these
It is able to illuminate humanity at least in a fair manner. justice interview
After that, one naturally awakens to religion and truth, that is, one becomes certified. Therefore
It is very essential to be infected with humane human consciousness in full form. based on this need
It is necessary to remain fully aware of the things provided in education. This is the transformation of tradition. educationally
Only this paves the way for the awakening of all human beings. Therefore the intermediate movement is human nature in the form of movement.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 07

This is possible only in the form of proving humanity. As a result of participation in the overall system
Divine human dignity, education, work and evidence remain glorious with authenticity and autonomy in form.
This is the most beautiful splendor of human tradition. It is possible to accomplish this only through empirical method. This only
The post of seer is also a proof of tradition.

Nature's movement is always visible in the form of a system with "Tva". Nature speed also means that
It indicates that the movement is in accordance with nature and religion. This also indicates the internal harmony in each unit.
Is. As a result, it is easy to prove the arrangement in mutuality. human nature humanity and in
Patience, bravery, generosity, mercy, kindness and compassion based on supreme excellence, actions, behaviour, thoughts and experiences.
It is only there. This prestige is mainly indicative of the post of seer. The word seer is an expression of perfect wisdom.
Communication and publication. The nature of such understanding is life knowledge, existence philosophy knowledge, complete humanity.
Conduct is knowledge. This visionary position is also the complete authority form of awakening. Thus complete understanding
Has been seen to be an empowered seer. From this understanding, loyalty and survival along with life knowledge
The philosophy is accompanied by firm determination and order in the expression of humane conduct.
It is easy to prove participation in. By this method every human being is found to be the seer, doer and enjoyer.

Recurrence of life is the glory of innate Akshaya Shakti – Akshaya force. tenth of this twentieth century
Whatever traditions have been established and flourished over the decades, which we call religious and scientific traditions,
Can. Whatever they have been able to do with the above two is imagination, freedom of action, drawing, remembering.
And it is expressed through the combination of languages. experiential tradition anywhere on earth until this decade
Could not be established. A world view worthy of him did not emerge. of empirical system
The need became necessary when mankind exploited the earth to the maximum. such as forest minerals
Exploited in a disproportionate manner. As a result of which the amount of pollution increased due to technology. Some?
When the intelligentsia began to imagine its horrors, they started practicing the philosophy of empirical knowledge.
The need was created. The research was completed on the basis of this need. main issue in
Experiences had to be communicated. Its principle is that in humans, from, for, through language, imagination, imagination
From thinking, from thinking to experience, from experience, evidence was seen to be elaborated and expressed clearly. From this
It becomes clear that language, imagination and depiction could not be the basis of the post of visionary. whereas till now
There were expressions too, but only to this extent. This hope, thought, desire was bound in different ways.


<newpage>

408 Intermediate Philosophy Coexistence (Existential Human Centered Thinking)

It is just a publication. Due to all this being a confused method, as testimony of which war is the main means of development.
As a result of accepting the basis, the evidence of confusion becomes clear. Whatever pacifist imaginings were possible,
Due to being individualistic, it could not be the basis of family, society and system. hedonistic hypothesis
Also became individualistic. It is well known that detachmentism is also isolationism in the form of self-pleasure. of all these
In short, the struggle itself was passed down from generation to generation. Most people also struggled in this decade. This way
Many organizations have been formed all over the earth. Wherever someone is sitting on the throne, his rebel
There was also organization. All this is in testimony to this that we achieve a universal system, a unified society and law.
The desire to attain what is not there remains in a partial form. Third human desire and life desire in any tradition
Due to this reason, experiential education could not be meaningful, clarifying the culture, system and constitution.
One destiny has been an innate necessity.

By mistakenly imagining that the body is the only thing to be understood, development and
Tried to focus the awakening but due to lack of analysis of human being still going in this direction
Research and its promotion have been continued. While life itself keeps the body alive
In the human tradition, life itself awakens itself through the human body filled with rich medhas.
Always kept trying to prove it. Due to confusion in traditions, human beings are easily
Desires for awakening: The frustration of lack of direction and lack of path always hinders every journey of the body.
Stayed. In this sequence, it is necessary to conduct necessary research for awakening and establish it in tradition.

Done.

Nature of life, work and method of working with the body Method of analysis and drawing conclusions on this issue
Has been presented. In this, basically life is the destination of development, imagination is the stage of awakening,
Analysis, depiction, thinking, natural originality, wealth of understanding and natural splendor of experience are appreciated by every person.
There is a need to experience. All the above mentioned activities in life can be done at least through imagination.
With more analysis, human traditions have been seen to be satirized. Such analyzes are often used to illustrate
Has been tried. Whereas human expectation and expectation of life became clear only through contemplation. awareness and
The experience is completely completed with the program of making life's needs and human needs meaningful. This
In the process of making it meaningful, both the universal system and the method of creating a united society become clear.
Is. Therefore, it is easy to establish an experiential work tradition in human tradition because of human need.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 09

The success of life's expectation has to be proved in the test itself. Thus, empirical knowledge, science, wisdom,
Ideas, analysis, methods to be proven in practice, systems, to be meaningful in tradition, to be realized.
Is expedient.

Science as empirical knowledge as life knowledge, coexistence philosophy knowledge, humane conduct knowledge.
existence through the analytical method of spontaneous coexistence, ideas through existential human-centered thinking
As, wisdom is known as the basis of reasoning based on accuracy, reality, truthfulness.
It has been taken, accepted, recognised. In order to fulfill this, there is also the work of expression and communication.
It is in the process of communication that humane behavior and participation in the family and family system take place.
Similarly, participation in the world family system remains appropriate. This is the vast and
It is the form of being certified in the biggest situation. humane behavior, in a humane system
Participation is an indivisible task, its general expectation is seen in every human being. refine it
And giving a resolved form is an awakened tradition. Thus far, various communities on this earth
It has become clear that the reason for the confused tradition suffered by humans is human illusion. With this
The possibility of awakening tradition for, from, in fulfilling the natural goals of human needs and life needs and its
The expediency also became clear.

In Jagriti Karya tradition, realization of authenticity, determination, contemplation of authenticity is achieved through experiential method only.
Life including illustration, justice, religion, truth, simple comparison, analysis, taste and selection of human values.
Establishing working system and style is the proof of awakening tradition, of awakened human being. It is also well known
Yes, it is natural for an awakened human being to be the founder and carrier of the awakened tradition. thus awakened style
What is meant to be clear in the form of expression, communications, work behavior is indicated by the name of awakened tradition.
The intention is.

Waiting for justice, solution, truth in any organ or component of the body, body's intuitive sensory functions
It is not visible in physical activities. Like the hand, instead of justice, in the eyes, ears, tongue and nose.
No matter how hard we try to understand justice, solution, truth in a symbolic form, only negation comes out.
Is. When the expectations of knowledge in the form of justice, solution, truth, ears, eyes and nose are not expressed in the sense organs.
Rather, the combination of things suitable for those senses seems pleasant.
It happens. Who would like to be asked like this? Is there any testimony of goodness in hands, nose, ears, eyes?


<newpage>

440 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Does not remain situated. When all this becomes clear then the question can again arise: what is the need of the body?
Why only? The eternal answer to which is that human tradition requires awakening of life and its authenticity.
To authenticate. In order to fulfill such a glorious purpose, human expectation and life becomes meaningful.
Is. In the fulfillment, fulfillment and supply sequence of human expectations, justice and rules and solutions are proved.
That also gets certified in marked form. The work of every life is its glory and fruition. its principle
This means that more power and force is published through a medium with less power and force. Life
Akshay Shakti is an entity endowed with renewable force. Power and strength of life cells depending on their composition
It remains limited. Because the sequence of composition of every composition remains the same. on this basis on this earth
The composition of all life cells changes quickly, the physical creations change for a long time. that's why human
In order for the body to remain composed of life cells, various work events are necessary in it. Thus
Physical strength and power, being proved as their system, are limited and countable in the inanimate category.
is found. Innate superiority in creation, Medhas creation and Medhas tantrana are the main ones. Hridaya Tantra, Medhas Tantra is this
Is the main mechanism. Thus, Medhas and Medhas Tantra, Hridaya and Hridaya Tantra co-exist in the body system.
Completion of work is a source of juice, chemical, result of digestion, excretion of unnecessary things for the human body.
All the systems are found to be working on the basis of both the systems mentioned above. this is the body system
The name is given. In case the body is no longer alive, the activities like food etc. can be carried out independently.
Editing is not possible and the activity of the senses becomes zero. many such examples
Manav has seen. From this it becomes clear that the basic element to keep the body alive is life itself. Life
This fact can be accepted only with knowledge. Till then it is inevitable that you will remain confused. most of confusion
This is what marked testimony is - considering the body as life. Life is simple in understanding the body as life.
Imagination is the basis. We believe this because we are confused. life expectancy as a result
The opposite happens contrary to human expectation, which is why the awakening method has been called human tradition.
The need for adoption became stronger.

The first achievement of the position of a seer is to be a seer of the body. Above only on the basis of being the observer of the body
The facts indicated have become clear. By taking the above facts to heart, the possibility of awakening would be appropriate.
It is only there. This is an expression with the same intention. This is the continuous function of being a seer, every situation, movement, combination, coincidence,
'The results mature and it becomes easy to evaluate the tendencies. life wisdom, survival philosophy
A knowledgeable human being conducts humanely, evaluates knowledge, evaluates the innate purpose of existence.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 44

Is. After clearly understanding how this glorious existence is, one becomes successful and is seen to be successful.
Has gone.

Existence manifests its splendor in all its four states as a co-existence of complete existence.
Have done. This is the meaning of present. Nature of life, acceptance and its experience, reputation is life.
Meaning of knowledge. Acceptance of existence as it is in its natural form and experience in it emerges from within itself.
The philosophy of tending coexistence implies this. Life knowledge coexistence philosophy of existence only in the light of sahaja
It is accessible to everyone. That is why emphasis is laid on life knowledge. Vidya means knowledge. here this
It is also important to remember the fact - things which Vidya or Gyan have been saying since ancient times.
He remained confined to the realm of imagination only. This is the proof of this which is called knowledge, soul, god.
It has been accepted as the basis of all sadhana, worship and worship. All that is not the transit of mind and intellect.
Considering the mind and intellect as inanimate activities, knowledge and consciousness are beyond their reach, thus they kept on giving sermons like this. Its
Despite this, many books have been written on this issue or name. The remarkable fact is that life
Knowledge - happens only for, from and in life. Coexistence philosophy: Knowledge exists in, for, and through coexistence.
The observer of both these modes is found to be life itself; as a result, humane conduct is achieved through knowledge and method.
The glory of the post of Irshta is clear. Through this method, knowledge of life means life that can be seen, understood and seen.
It became clear to be included. Visible life, visible coexistence, this existence becomes clear in the form of philosophy.
Happened. The existence of life should also be natural on the basis of existence of indivisible present in coexistence of life.
is found.

On the issues of evidence, spiritualism was the first to accept the word evidence. Subsequently, reconsidered
The objectionable sentences were considered as evidence. The third direct, inference, inference was considered as evidence. All these i.e.
The facts that could be studied on the basis of all three types of evidence could not be included in human tradition.

Due to this incident, this review can also be done only this, it is all a product of imagination. understand the word as evidence
There is no real benefit from tax. Any word can be the name of a real thing. recognize object
It is only after this that the use of the name has been found to be meaningful. By this method the meaning of word proof becomes meaningless
It happens. “Aapta Vakya Pramanyam.” Accept any truth that is guided by the objection sentences.
There is no problem in taking it. Whereas which of the four Mahavakyas, whatever name is in the form
And the thing indicated by the word as it is heard has not yet come into the study tradition.


<newpage>

442 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

When the objection sentence is not studyable, it is based only on belief, the argument is a link to the essence, the study
It is necessary to be logical. In such a situation, how can even the affected men be identified? this question remains under mark
Went. Any normal person, tormented by fear, temptation and struggle, would consider someone as an evil person.
If they are then this responsibility is established with them, how did you accept it? a lot of answers to this
People continued to believe, or I happily accepted it - this is the positive answer I get. without such
Along with accepting the knowledge, it also assures complete well-being along with all the wishes.
Or give assurance of fulfillment of wishes. The place of such assurance, the coincidence of the person giving the assurance
The presence of a religious atmosphere (crowd) has been observed. By any one or all of such crowd
The expectations of life and expectations of humanity were not seen coming to fruition till the last decade of this century.

As far as perception is concerned, it has been indicated by the name of Gyanendriya Gochar or Indriya Sannikarsha.
There is more in imagination than in eyes, more in understanding than in imagination and more in experience than in understanding. in
The facts have been clarified earlier. Therefore, the image of the entire object is not visible in the eyes, understand
Comes. There is no direct proof through this method. Conjecture is entirely the realm of imagination. Estimate
An event that has not come in the past but is going to come in the future is also named Aagam. just guess when
It is an imagination - the income will also be an imagination. Imaginary decisions, tendencies, efforts towards some unattainable destination
Does not certify. In this way the review of direct, inference and inference has become clear. okay with this
Review of sentence and word proof has also been submitted. life knowledge, existence philosophy, complete humanity
Through the method of conduct, experience, behavior and experiment have been seen as evidence. meaning of seeing
It is by understanding. These three are incidents that happen in every human being. human tradition through humane method
In a state of being overwhelmed (being overwhelmed means being immersed) every human being tests himself,
Experience has to be verified through observation. Humane treatment, participation in the system,
It is a joint form of conduct. It contains the thinking style and experience power of human being. Use
Whatever is done in work, the thread of thought, behavior and purpose is found to be present.
Is. Through these meaningful methods, one can find meaning in human life and life. So it is clear
It has happened that in human tradition the basic source of proof and authentication is experience. This thinking style,
Behavior is evidenced in work and experimental tasks. Therefore, the proof of experience is the ultimate proof, it is clear
It happens. That is why it has become clear that human tradition is meaningful only through empirical method. Experience
Spontaneous expression is the proof of the seer's position and the tradition.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 43

An awakened life and an awakened life is to prove one's work, behavior, thoughts and experiments.
The status of seer is a proof of human awakening happening naturally. Life is based on intuitive experience.
As a result of being overwhelmed by all the activities of life, there is acceptance of accuracy, reality, truthfulness and
Its expression, communication and publication are found to be easy. complete truth state truth, object state
Truth has been found to be visible in the form of objective truth through knowable methods. co-exist in sequence
Direction, time, country, form, qualities, nature, religion, spontaneous study, consciousness development, values, understanding and experience through education method.
It is only there. This is within the understanding of every awakened human being. Humane behavior in a simple manner i.e.
By participating in a united society and universal system with humane conduct, in this situation, this
It would be convenient for every person to present the evidence of the solution through perceptual experience and to be easy and meaningful.
It is only there. On the basis of these facts, it is proved that being a human observer is an experience in coexistence.

According to the mysterious God-centered idea in the previous thought, God is the doer-consumer in the form of language.
Keep telling. On this basis, a lot of efforts were made to show that Brahma, soul or God is the seer of everything. this issue
On the basis of being a mystery, it is still embroiled in debate. While coexistence is life itself
In human tradition, it has been seen to be successful as a doer and enjoyer along with the status of a visionary. of awakening
The proof lies only in human tradition. Coexistence, life and humanity through all means
Conducted in a consistent manner, by logic, by analysis, by arranging elements between any two poles.
Through spontaneous working system, on the basis of Jeevanachaati i.e. life values ​​and Manavachaati i.e. human innate goals.
But with the intentions of knowing, accepting, recognizing and maintaining the universal system and the unbroken social order.
Concepts are easily accepted in life. Consciousness opening up to this fact in this sequence
Development of values ​​happens through education and culture; life itself awakens to meaning. in significance
To live is to suffer. He conducts all his work in a conscious manner only for the sake of meaningfulness. awakening itself
The post of seer is an easy proof. To do is the doer's position and to fulfill the needs of life and humanity in a detailed manner.
To live is to enjoy life. The body is seen to be useful only as a means to an end.
The study sequence was also seen to be a meaningful medium. Studying and teaching is also in the subject noun.
Comes. In the position of seer, complete life is proved in the form of awakening. I have learned this proof,
I have accepted and can prove that the purpose of study is as per the situation. i.e.
Every person is in a state of awakening, as far as the issue of suffering is concerned, there is an easier solution than human beings and prosperity.
In the sense of body nutrition, protection and social movement of all the physical and chemical things during the time of enjoyment.


<newpage>

Chapter 4 Mediated philosophy Co-existentialism (existential human-centric thinking)

One accepts prosperity by offering and dedicating. As far as life in solution, fearlessness and coexistence
Only experiencing has been seen. Enjoyer of life related happiness, peace, satisfaction and joy only life

This has been seen to happen.

Discussions have also been prevalent in the form of knowledge, knower, knower. No final conclusion study in this context also
It was not possible to reach. Now existential, human-centered thinking, study of ideas and evidence
According to the triad, knowledge is an activity in life. It is knowledge from other language which leads to awakening life activities.
Is. Coexistence is knowable, that is, it is a thing worth knowing. Life exists inseparably in coexistence
lives. It has become clear that life is routine. Therefore, continuity of awakening after awakening of life
is bound to. On the basis of these facts it becomes clear that only awakened life is the knower. including life
The entire existence is knowable and the reflective activity of awakened life is knowledge.

It has become clear that co-existence is the only thing worth experiencing. Existence itself is full of power.
As clear as nature is. In the state of being experienced in existence, existence itself is due to being comprehensive.
The object of experience remains. All units remain visible in this object. supreme truth spontaneity
It is natural to co-exist, to be experienced in existence and to be overwhelmed in existence from that very moment.
Is. To be overwhelmed means to experience being transcendent, comprehensive and transparent. to experience
The ultimate thing is life itself. Through this method, the existence of power is also indicated in the name of God, Knowledge, Paramatma.
Have got it done. This is the meaning of being experienced in co-existence, that is, the experience of being transcendental.
is the main fact. It is natural for existential experience to be a confirmation of this fact. Nature is indivisible in power.
There is no place without power. Nature is always present in power. power through this method
Permeability is proved on the basis of the inanimate and animate nature being full of energy. by this method
In the existence of power itself, indivisible forms are visible in a submerged, surrounded system. These atoms, molecules, molecules are composed of
The body is seen in the form of many planets and spheres. These atoms, molecules, molecular structures are the life state.
The world, the state of being and the body of the state of knowledge are visible. The observer of all this is life itself. in power
Only after experience, it has been seen that the status of seer continues to be established. coexistence within this experience
The whole scene becomes understandable in the light of life. Use of life light i.e. reflection empirically
The perception of authenticity as a method is reflected in human tradition along with resolution and action. therefore


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 45

Awakened life activities to prove the experiential knowledge in practice and experiments forever.
Does. This human tradition is an innate necessity.

Reflection of experience in existence - Authenticity - Knowledge Viveka Vigyan - (in reflection)
Experienced (experienced) life in existence - Knower (in return)
Existence - Knowable - Nature involved in existence

In the state of experience in existence, knowledge, known and knower are seen to be in the form of co-existence of uniformity.
Which is clear from the method described above.

All these manifestations are intertwined with the innate system of destiny. coexistence seamless perfect
In development in the form of complementarity in activity, coexistence, utility-sublimation, creation-deconstruction
It is visible. Second stream development, Chaitanya Pad life work, biography sequence, life awakening sequence, awakening, awakening
What is visible is completeness and its continuity. It became clear that the sequence of destiny is in itself a sequence of development,
Development is awakening and awakening. This entire expression is present.

Function, cause, subject: Sahaj issue has also been a topic of discussion among humans. seer, doer, enjoyer mentioned above
In order to understand the clear working system of work, cause, subject. This issue centers on a mysterious God.
According to object-centered thinking based on thoughts and uncertainty, we always remain in the clutches of question mark.
Come. No solution to this could be studied. existential anthropocentric ideology
According to this, life itself is the observer of cause and effect. The coexistence of nature in power is the cause and effect.
As is the continual present. Coexistence is the causal form of action. Coexistence is the form of action.
Because only in co-existence is the entire destiny of spontaneous activity visible. existence ever present
It is there. Existence itself is in the form of constant state, co-existence in the form of constant movement, the inanimate-conscious nature is evident.
Is. Existence itself is the cause of all activity and coexistence itself is activity.
In existence, it is clear that only the observer is in the doer position and all other positions are established in the action position only. Work-
Harmony between the cause and effect becomes the formula for the status of a seer. Life can be awakened only in such prestige.
Proof: Knowledge is proved in practice through empirical method. Therefore, humans are the doers
Is in and the entire existence is in the cause-and-effect position. Due to the method of cause and effect, the position of the doer, the status of knowledge, the state of knowledge
Have been seen in.


<newpage>

446 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Means, ends and seekers: We have been considering them as objects of discussion and pursuit since ancient times.
The coming is clearly presented in human tradition. Human as a seeker, human as an end
And by reducing the distance between the goal of life, the goal and the seeker, the goal is placed in the order of proximity, contiguity, harmony.
All the measures used in order to get certified are known as means. as a means
The envisioned solution has been seen to be a combination of many solutions.
In this method, humans lived in different types of communities in different community traditions till the last decade of the twentieth century.
The name of Sadhya has been seen becoming popular. It has been observed that the names of this type of Sadhya are many.
The system of words giving satisfaction for the goal obtained in the form of many names, which we can call prayer.
The worship system which we can call puja, the processes of saying it and showing it by doing have also been completed.
On this basis, there is also talk of meditating on any shaped object. in such meditation
Only the imagination inherent in every seeker has been seen to be used. use of such imagination
It has also been observed to be done repeatedly every day. Its end result and meaningful result thoughtless situation
Which is also popularly known as 'Samadhi'. Even in such a situation i.e. even in a thoughtless state
passed away. After going through Samadhi properly, analysis of programs and related programs will be done.
Freedom from tendencies is visible. This is glorified in the form of independent happiness and ultimate attainment.
Have done. After applying the test of analysis, it was revealed that after the state of thoughtless human being
Usage becomes zero. As a result, I observed the practice of restraint, which resulted in co-existence.
It was understood that in whose communication and expression the study of coexistence can be made accessible to other people.
Was certified. In the same sequence of expression, “experiential spiritualism” was also presented to humans.

As far as wishful expectations are concerned, most of the human beings have a supply of them which can be fulfilled through spiritual practice.
It is considered to be the result of this, whereas such supplies keep happening to humans even without doing sadhana. that's why
There is no concrete proof that one's wishes are fulfilled through sadhana. This is only a matter of faith and
It comes to addressing based on the time of the event. All this is due to fear and temptation.
There is an alliance whereas in a thoughtless state no effect of fear or temptation is visible. pain of deprivation
Can't even see. That is why there is no pain of past and future and conflict of present. This is called self-pleasure
It has seemed appropriate to name it. Swant: Proof of happiness transformed into universal happiness in the form of society.
There is no formula left for existence. That is why there should be no time to even enter this stage.
Patti. It has also been seen that complete honesty and devotion should be devoted towards 'samadhi state'.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 47

It is only in this sequence that the mind, intellect, chit and instincts can reach the place of Samadhi. as a result their motion
There is no remaining, such a thing can be achieved which is named as Nirvichara state. After such intense meditation,
How many people would be able to achieve such a state of samadhi or thoughtlessness when the very purpose and program of man is not born?
Are - It comes in question mark. Only very few people are able to want an answer to this. written in such scriptures only
Is.

Basically, we set out to research the method of all happiness, the method of all auspiciousness. I consider myself successful
Came into accepted state of being. This happened only when there was complete coexistence in the process of practice and thinking.
It has come to be known and accepted. It came to be known and accepted that humans exist in an indivisible form. of this
At the same time, the answer to why and how was determined by their specific work. of every human life and body
Being present in a joint form came to be known and accepted. At the same time, accepting the function of research
Come into position. Immediately thereafter, the process of identifying the method of offering it to humans took place.
Gradually we got involved in this work. We were able to recognize the fact that the empirical method
The human clan needs to be expressed in the form of tradition and for it to be successful in human
Full of all facts.

Apart from the goal of Samadhi, whatever else is believed as an end, seeker, means in human tradition.
It is popular that all of them were found to be decoration of the imagination area only. Because even in the basic scriptures of every religion, religion
Their imaginations have been decorated in the form of symptoms. Therefore all such symbols and
A confused seeker considering the things related to symbols as attainable and ready for them
And in combination with confused means, jealousy, hatred, curse, opposition, debate, temptation, fear, problem becomes problem.
Got to see. In this way, both the practices leading to samadhi and the practices leading to achieving one's desires are clear.
The remarkable thing is that every seeker, or the greatest seeker, who is struggling with both types, attains all happiness.
There are lovers.

Even after so long hard work, we have still not been able to identify the basic form or the universal form of happiness.
There has been a hindrance because on the basis of mystery, on the basis of preaching, powerful
Microscopes, telescopes and all the substances that work by combining alkaline, acidic rays and radiation.
Even through the analysis of chemicals, the Sarvsukh method could not be found. One person in millions, one in billions, a mystic
On the basis of ideology, we have attained the path of independent happiness because we have got to see this place. From this


<newpage>

448 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Also, the path, direction, formula, explanation, study method, process tradition for achieving all the auspiciousness could not be established. it
Also reviewed with this, any person, even after attaining independent happiness, does not belong to different communities.
The betrayal, rebellion, exploitation and war inherent in mutuality have not ended. Not only this, inherent in every community
The conflict could not be resolved. In this century, on the basis of scientism being war-oriented and conflict-oriented,
It is being seen that it was most affected till the end of the year. This is a review of the past. conflict-war resolution
Or it could not be the basis of all good.

Awakening Method and Practice

Existential human centered thinking, knowledge, philosophy, conduct and study were seen to be accessible in polarized form.
Is. Knowledge of life: The interconnectedness of the activities taking place in life is easily understood on the basis of polar points.
Trupti Vidhi is the manifestation of all auspiciousness and solution. Like harmony between mind and satisfaction
The point has been identified as analysis, appreciation by comparison. After experiencing this coexistence
Rules, justice, religion and truth become meaningful only after they are experienced in simple practice. For this i.e.
For such experience, study begins sequentially. Study concept area's current method
Is. Through this method, as many concepts became related to the study, on the basis of the same concepts
The trend was based on intuitive justice, religious and true intuitive comparison, justice based on balanced thoughts.
All selection done, including tasting, is seen to be a form of justice. Similarly said above
When the activities of drawing, comparing, considering, tasting and selecting are done thoughtfully and in a judicious manner.
Seen to be certified. Concepts co-exist on the basis of natural existence.
To experience on the basis of having form i.e. to know and believe and to attain its satisfaction point is experience.
Is. Knowing-believing-recognizing is the concept. In this, attaining the point of satisfaction is the experience. It works-
Expressing it in a behavioral system is authenticity. those who are accomplished with full understanding as evidenced by experience
Completed with resolution, contemplation, depiction, justice, religion, comparison of truth, analysis and taste.
He is seen taking part in the manifestations, system and overall system. This
It has been made clear that only the awakened human being is free from the bondage of illusion in existence. awakening method,
The method of spiritual practice in the form of study has been found to be most useful, beneficial and purposeful. This
It has been observed that the harmony of the means, the seeker and the means is accomplished in a spontaneous manner.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 49

Every human being is a seeker for awakening. The only goal is awakening. The tool is an awakening study system. This
Evidence of participation in the body-mind-wealth system and the overall system in the form of tradition, prestige, etc.
It happens as per human wish. In this way, the combination of means, means and end is a humanitarian tradition.
The nature of being successful with the method is clear. Before such a tradition (like the confused community in today's situation)
Traditions) The mechanism of infection is the issue in the humanitarian tradition. In this sequence of research
With time, more and more researchers agree and according to the agreement, loyalty arises and
Spontaneous loyalty also emerges from languages. Such dedicated and talented people are engaged in this work. This only
In today's situation, awakening study, awakening expression, spontaneous method can be done by more than one person.
It has become the basis for getting certified. In the awakening tradition, there should be daily music in the endeavor, means, and seeker.
Has been observed. The solution has always been found to be in another language.

On the basis of the mentioned experiences, complete awakening automatically gives knowledge of life, philosophy of existence,
Humane conduct is complete in knowledge only. Its method of practice is first research and second study.
Prior research, careful study, this is the basic practice. Because by the study method itself, by the research method itself
Acceptance of the concept is seen. There is always a possibility of confusion in other methods like preaching method.
It remains the same.

Every tradition has its own established order and prestige. He is studious.
Till now it is just advice or information. The purpose for which there are orders and instructions in tradition is rational behavior.
The process of having coherent understanding is called teaching. Meaningful form of argument is scientific
It was seen to be a science based on reason and reason. Use of purposeless preaching and that too behavior, proof
A meaningless sermon can last only as long as it is not logical. Logic also implies this fact
Reveals. Attraction system for satisfaction (Language system) Such arguments are naturally from science.
It is easy for the intended analyzes to prove the intended purposes through prudence. we understand this
We have already learned that the solution to living purposefully, to be authentic, is to co-exist in prosperity.
It is necessary to have a logical and practical method for philosophy.

Study activity, rational purpose, purpose compatible human requirement, human requirement compatible life requirement,
Coexistence compatible with life, coexistence compatible evolution and development, evolution and development
Compatible life-biography sequence-awakening sequence-awakening and its continuation co-existence is the natural goal. Existence


<newpage>

420 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Even in simple goals, man is indivisible and the seer. Therefore human existence is a natural coexistence method.
Sahaj study of coexistence based on the sutras of complementarity-sublimation, complementarity-development, complementarity-awakening
Has become accessible.

It is appropriate for the entire existence to exist in the form of a system. Even today everyone except humans
In the state (matter, life, living state) it is seen to be in order with its respective elements. In this order
Human beings too, along with their humanity, can make their spontaneous expectations meaningful by participating in the system and the overall system.
Awakening is found only in the order of.

We find that the Jagriti Sutra explanation and proof is glorious in the form of all good. to this effect
Popularizing the program is also a fundamental dimension of the Sarvashubh programme. because of this truth
“Experiential Spiritualism” is a presentation. Every human being can do everything with his own imagination and freedom of action.
Performs the activity of examining (testing) the presentations, accepting or rejecting them. human
The directions of working methods can be changed due to the imagination and freedom of action found in oneself.
Does. As if the governance is yearning for a people-centric direction after getting rid of the state-centric direction. Others
By getting rid of monarchy, the expectation of democracy has strengthened in the language. based on assumptions (or assumptions
Centered) Tendencies have emerged in human beings to spread views towards meaning instead of stereotypes.
Is. The second dimension of belief is that humans base their work policies and behavior on the basis of mystical stories.
Policies have been forced to remain fixed. There is a possibility of reconsideration in it like understanding
On the basis of universality, trends like work-behavior, production-exchange, health-control, education, justice etc.
The need for change in direction is becoming stronger. This shows that we humans are a
We want such a method of practice which is accepted by all human beings and which is useful. On the basis of these two poles
The meaning, purpose and system, method and policy of human need and life need have become clear. human need
That is, human goal is a necessity of life i.e. value of life.

Opportunity for every person to become proficient on the above issue through existential human-centered thinking method,
The resource in the form of necessity and the inexhaustible force inherent in every human life remains present. of wisdom
It is on this basis that the method of making the human need for life and human need meaningful is proven.
In the order of human needs, the need for life remains present in an indivisible form. The main issue is this, all-round
Every human being becomes happy only with a solution and every family becomes prosperous with an all-round solution.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 424

It has been seen that every human being is the bearer of the solution. Only bearer of “life” in humans
Has been seen to be a carrier. The purpose of life is always awakening. awakening life instinctive need
Human beings are constantly appropriate in the natural tradition for which it is obvious that every human being should be curious. therefore
The necessity of life has been seen to be continuously effective in the human life itself and along with this it is seen in all human beings.
The effect is visible. The proof of life's necessity is human necessity and the proof of human necessity itself.
Life expectancy has been observed.

Human beings in co-existence, life proving spontaneous awakening, being natural, beautiful, fulfilling and pleasant
Has been observed. Every tradition (every stage, every position) co-exists in the form of daily glory or continuous
It has been proved as a glory only when the traditions themselves are rich and dynamic. in the same order
In this, human tradition is also glorified in a naturally recurring form as per the need of life and human need through empirical method.
It is expedient to have a universal system and a united society. This is also required in human tradition
It has been seen that the expectation of universality in humans is accepted. hope it in another way
Universality in every human being, in every tradition, in every community, in every caste, creed, opinion, sect
It is included. The desire to make it meaningful also appeared in the form of voices in the tenth decade of this twentieth century.
I get to hear. To make it meaningful, experiential spirituality has been essential.

Experiential spiritualist thoughts and behavior must prove coexistence in a natural form.
Is. It is natural for this work to be done in human tradition only. Because the human unit itself is conditioned by culture.
It has been made clear that there is an expression. The expression also means an all-round solution.
Has been seen to be meaningful. Such a solution is available to human tradition in every dimension, direction, angle and perspective.
Being resolved has been seen as being meaningful and moving towards vastness.
This is the desired and proof of Jagriti Vidhi Sadhana. Human beings prove their awakening through intuitive evidence.
This is the meaning of practice. The exercise in its meaningful form was done for holistic solution
It is a combination of experiences, thoughts and behaviour.

Experience is human natural expectation and splendor. Mainly sense based acceptance
Remains affected till the end. For its evaluation and review, value based and goal based
It is necessary for a human being to be certified towards principles, formulas and explanations. because the senses are approximate
Any community tradition is formed by the collection of methods, tasks and means necessary for it.


<newpage>

422 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Has been unable to prove human needs and life needs or has been defeated. With this-
The expectation of solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence remained in every community but was not proved.
It has been possible. In this sequence it becomes clear that since ancient times, human beings have been working for the universal good.
The reason for defeat till now is due to their solipsistic and indulgent tendencies. The path to fame is also clear
are done. It is only the empirical system in coexistence which fulfills the goal based, value based expectations.
Has been seen to be capable of giving a meaningful form. Naturally human need from value based system
Becomes successful. Goal oriented system has been found to make life meaningful.

Systems have been seen to be basically sensory, approximate or experiential. sensory approximant
Man has done experiments based on systems on this earth. This has already been reviewed.
Now only value based, goal based method is appropriate to be the refuge for the entire human being. in human
While always expecting the value and goal, on the contrary, the system expected to achieve it.

In human tradition, education-culture, justice-security, production work, regulation of funds, health-control, order and
Participation in the system, being aware of intuitive issues, being capable of observing, knowing, accepting and identifying.
Being and being expert in living is authenticity. Expertise means everything is done carefully.
Work practices have to be propounded, published and certified in the sense of completeness. this human
There was seen to be a natural expectation and need. Its other methods include human physical, verbal,
Awakening activities have to be certified in mental, done, caused and approved modes. it
Everyone is accepted. Want to be awakened or remain confused to see acceptance everywhere,
In response to this, every person takes the side of awakening. Explicit Form of Awakening Awakening into Existence
It is only there. The dynamic nature of awakening into existence lies in coexistence itself. whom
We recognize as coexistence. Evolution and development in the atom only in coexistence, developed
Atoms are the basis of life, life itself is biography, Jagritikrama, awakening and awakening methods.
To remain free in diverse traditions, to have an integral, universal system, to exist naturally and to be formative.
Compositions and structures are present in atoms as a function of physical-chemical activities, these co-exist
Knowing, believing, recognizing and following the spontaneous movement is the proof of awakening and awareness. from is
It is known that in all the orders mentioned above, every human being, being certified as the most human is the awakened human tradition.
Its form became clear. This is what makes the Sarvsukh method worthwhile.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 423

To establish the tradition awakened in humans, to prove it and to maintain its continuity.
Hedonistic law and order is the only refuge. It has already become clear that awakening is the method.
Yes, the system is to prove it. This system is a system of humane, complete education and accessibility of culture.
In form justice-security accessibility, regulation-function accessibility, production-function accessibility, health-control function
It has been seen to be available in accessible form. It is expedient, necessary and possible for it to be universally accessible. human
The proof of awakening in tradition is humane education and culture. Awakening and continuity of order
In the health-control system, it automatically works for, from and for the human being. Thus awakening and
It is natural for the system to be universal through awakening based method. Because every human wants to be awakened
And every human wants to live in the system. This is the glory of experiencing existence, of coexistence.
The effect is that as a result, awakening and the proof of awakening is meaningful in the universal system of human tradition.
This is the purpose of “experiential spiritualism”.

practice and meditation, worship

This is a language or issue heard since ancient times. human tendencies assessed as issues
It is easy to go. On hearsay basis, in the form of books, documents, hearsay from spokespersons
Situations are assessed.

The worshipers have to give their Aartata (inability) to some unknown, omnipotent being for Aartha (ability).
The activities have been seen as making noises while accepting the existence of it. proof by this method
And there is no single formula for its universality. Still to assess this
Tried to see how many people are happy while worshiping. in this order
I found that people consider some good or bad events as the result of their worship and seek solace.
Was seen to happen. During our journey, we kept assessing the results of worship in the above manner. therefore
It became clear that all worship was individualistic.

Even today, many people remain motivated by good wishes in their sadhana. We do sadhana for our improvement
Be able to see it as an effort. The final (satisfaction) point of improvement was seen to be in the form of awakening.

We have been able to see the practice as a fact that the awakening points we have gained through sadhana have further enriched us.
Meaningfulness was seen in the form of implementing it as Abhyudaya (all-round solution).


<newpage>

424 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centered thinking)

Along with this, Nihshreyas (continuous credit) was seen as the completion of awakening. meaning of seeing
It is only by understanding. Understanding means knowing, accepting and recognizing. Awakening to the nature of credit and
It has been seen to happen only in its continuity. Every human being, every family, every community, every sect, everything
Just accept the awakening. Every human being can see this through inspection, testing and survey. from is
It becomes clear that in every country and era, every human being deserves credit. Tradition is easy to give it a meaningful form
Acceptance of duty is necessary. In this sequence it has also become clear that spiritual practice leads to awakening,
Having order in Jagriti method is a daily practice and proof.

The practice itself is certified as a research activity. tendencies found in every human being
These are the basic powers used for research. These life forces were seen as innate
Is. As long as life forces remain confused, imagination continues to function as freedom of action.
Is. The entire experiment is done in the form of sadhana only. Every spiritual practice is used only for the purpose of improvement.
Improvement is only towards awakening. The aim point of awakening is experience and authenticity. authenticity
It is used in the sense of Abhyudaya i.e. all-round solution. This is human religion. awakening
It remains famous in the form of happiness, peace, satisfaction and joy. This is the daily nature of life's necessity.

Experience has been found to exist. Life itself is experienced in existence. That's why life itself
Kartapad is famous in prestige. The main point here is that life also exists in coexistence.
The nature and effect of existence has already been explained - existence itself is coexistence. coexistence itself
Is ever effective and manifest. Everything that exists - it is all in the form of objects because they
The facts are constantly proven. Pervading existence and existing as one-to-one infinite units
Appears to be in. Whose viewer is only human. All the things that exist are made up of these things.
Naming is a natural activity of human beings. Like- soil is a name. in the name of soil
The indicated object does exist. This (soil) is present in itself as a thing, despite not having just a name.
Similarly, the existence of the thing indicated by every name is present. each one complete in the wider object
On the basis of being wet, submerged and surrounded, the pervasive object has been named power. some names from before
Yes - that is spirituality. Earlier, it was not possible to understand and explain a broad subject in a meaningful way. Now!
It has become possible for every human being to understand this comprehensive thing. The things which exist individually, these
In mutuality the broader object is visible even before it can be seen. We also call this comprehensive thing as spirituality.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 425

Have given. “Experiential”
This greatness has been named 'Spiritualism'. Dialogue has always been a means of communication between each other in human tradition.
It is work only. The second method is communication. Communication is an essential process in human tradition. every facts
It is necessary to have awareness about it and its communication in human tradition. appropriate for, in, to, human
Communication regarding all dimensions, angles, directions and perspectives is an essential event. this event
Naturally, in order to keep human needs and life's needs meaningful, it is desired by all.
Due to this aspiration there is an expression of “experiential spiritualism”.

Due to lack of experience from the distant past, despite embellishing the thoughts in many ways, the human expectation-necessity of life
Success or success point could not be found. Now “experiential spiritualism”, “behavioral democracy”
And the method of being universally accessible through the method of coexistence in the form of “solution materialism”.
It has become possible to have discussions, conversations, enlightenment and studies. wisdom in human study
Seen to be perfect. That's why all that is needed to understand the whole thing is tradition.
There is a need to make it accessible to all. Life with this intention is spontaneous awakening, spontaneous awakening
In order of expression and communication, it is presented before a human being.

Life is the seer, coexistence is the visible, justice, religion, functioning of truthful views is the form of vision.
The proof of this is the accessibility of justice (inter-human and natural), the accessibility of religion (all-round solution
Accessibility) and Jagriti Sulabhta (authenticity and proof accessibility) all this through Jagriti centric method.
The ultimate truth of coexistence has been seen to be accomplished in the form of behavior and action. awakening of every person
The aspiration is there. Therefore, their easy study and evaluation in the education-sanskar tradition as specified in the tradition.
Adoption of methods, systems and policies is the form of desired change in tradition. life as a visionary
Or to express, communicate, publish justice, religion, truth in a glorious life tradition in the position of seer.
Only humans are capable of doing it. This fact was revealed only after testing and observing it.
Is. Because human aspiration, aspiration for life itself is in the form of all good. It has always been successful in human tradition
It will keep happening. It is only in the awakened tradition that every human being and family becomes most useful, useful and purposeful.
Being a benefactor has been seen. The meaning of benevolence is to human beings, paving the way for human awakening.
Have been seen getting it done. Whatever a human being is able to do through this action is beneficial, that is awakening.
Presents simple proofs, it helps the people who are not awakened at present to become awakened.


<newpage>

426 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Becomes a suitable presentation for. This co-existence is experienced with spontaneous authenticity.
It is seen to be in the form of all-round solution, prosperous condition and momentum; because awakening
Every person is autonomous from the study system. Form of autonomy: self-confidence, superiority
Respect, balance in talent and personality, social in behavior, self-reliant in business (production)
Has been observed. Only such autonomous human beings are capable of living by allowing them to live as family humans. This only
Due to its amazing power, all-round solution and prosperity becomes glorious. This is every autonomous family human
It is a proof of success and also a proof of all good fortune. Therefore, from human truth perspective, religion perspective, justice
Vision is inherently autonomous and able to evaluate autonomy. That's why family is human
Universality (acceptance of all human beings in, from, for and through the family humanity) is easy to flow.

Subject-causation: This fact has already become clear that what is proved in the terms seer, doer, enjoyer.
The unit is the awakened human being. In which the consumer can see every confused man and woman in the post. Whether Pandit
You may be a fool, you may be called wise, you may be called ignorant, you may be strong, you may be weak, you may be rich, you may be poor, you may be a child or a virgin.
Why shouldn't every person, in youth, adulthood and old age, consume food in every way, whether desired or undesired?
What happened can be seen. Enjoyment is evidence of the fact that one gets attainments only as a result of doing something.
Are. Accepting also has to be done. By doing something in this way, by accepting something, one attains the things that one can enjoy.
lives. This fact is well known. In this order every human being seen as free to do and accept
Has gone. One person is seen doing something different from what another person does,
The person accepts the things, the other person accepts the things different from him. Therefore Karma Freedom Sutra
Gets certified. This also concludes with this that enjoyment is possible only on the basis of doing something.
Goods are obtained.

In every person, every moment, after one enjoyment, the tendencies to enjoy it again remain emerging.
The basis of change in it is found in the past offerings. To enjoy this method,
Changing the things enjoyed and changing the style of doing things to get the changed things,
Change of ideas has been seen to be at the core of the style. Thus justice, religion, truth are easy proofs.
Till completion, change is inevitable in every human being.

Ideological approach to complete transformation of whatever is visible in human beings.
The preparation and the actions performed by the body are behavior itself. receipts as a result of these


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 27

Has been observed. In this way, it has become clear that the position of the observer is the main thing at the root of the doer and the enjoyer. This 
Based on this, it is natural for the subject, action and reason to be self-evident. The reasons are basically found in humans
That's the vision. Work due to vision, enjoyment due to work, re-vision due to enjoyment, thought
There is vision in every human being.

On the basis of complete causal vision (awareness) in human beings, every person is able to determine the causal actions.
Is. This is a definite thought process. Due to these reasons, activities are accomplished in the form of doing and accepting.
It can be seen that it has happened. The necessity and possibility of the six visions being active in every human being.
It is worth studying, it has been made clear. Along with this, it has also been made clear that dear, interest,
It is not possible for any human being to be social from profit point of view, it is very difficult to live in the system.
This state was explained by the name of confused state. Justice, religion, truth vision in awakened human being
Develops. With awareness, man becomes social and lives within the system. In every human being, from, to
For awakening justice, religion, truth is accepted and desirable. Due to confusion, different community traditions have their own
Find a way to confuse the descendants who follow their tradition with community importance
Are. That is why the children coming in every tradition kept getting confused again and again. This work was published in the tenth part of the twentieth century.
Was seen for decade. In the tenth decade, some people with “existential human-centered approach”
It became clear that the education and culture received in the tradition from the past is leading to confusion. need to get rid of
Is. Along with this, it was also understood that every human being wants to grow beyond the traditional community mentality.
gets to. The proof of this is that it turned out to be worse than it was supposed to be as per the tradition's instructions.
That portion is found to be towards the right. Like all types of religious sects are opposed to their respective religions.
All are sinners, heretics, unrighteous, all of them will be destroyed. God the Destroyer, Almighty
Is. Only the one who saves religion will destroy the heretics. It is justice to destroy such heretics and this
God is pleased. This is an element for mutual rebellion. If honestly in every religious traditions
If you are bent on what has been said then you should always keep fighting and killing or keep dying.
Not much happened. On the contrary, the population on earth continued to increase. That's why we know tradition
In a better situation than the worse situation in which we have kept our promises.
Most people are seen. Whose testimony is true irrespective of any country, time, caste, creed, sect or creed.
On asking any common man whether he is a follower or a supporter that fighting among communities


<newpage>

428 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Should or should we live together? The answer is to live together. Thus we get community traditions
The desire to be the best human being is visible even today due to the beliefs of.

It has become clear that man's attitude and thoughts are the cause of every action. reason for thoughts
It depends on the angle of view. Every viewpoint human life spontaneous awakening order, awakening, awakening perfection
And depends on its continuity. Cause of awakening Existence, existence Spontaneous coexistence, coexistence
Spontaneous evolution in the atom, evolution in the atom, spontaneous formation, completeness in the atom, spontaneous life,
Life, spontaneous vision, spontaneous vision, spontaneous thoughts, spontaneous activity, spontaneous awakening, awakening,
Awakening, perfection, destiny is a spontaneous activity. Destiny, spontaneous activity means evolution, development,
Awakening is order and awakening is completeness. The entire existence is expressed in this sequence. this way of vision
Coexistence is the reason for active awakening. It is with this truth that every human awakening is certified.
is capable. Therefore, the basic reason is to prove the natural awakening of existence.

Whatever the conditions of the entire existence, such as atoms, atomic parts, the earth, a solar array, such
This is the infinite solar array which we humans refer to by the names of planets, stars, galaxies etc.
Have been. All this exists by natural means, imbued with power. any of these four earths
The stage of spontaneous expression has been completed, some are becoming so. There are going to be some. That's why
We have understood that existence is ever present. That is why existence is referred to as the ultimate truth.
Has been done. The basic reason for experience and its expression is coexistence.

solitude and coexistence

Since ancient times, solitary abode has been seen as the basis of faith, saying that
Is. In its basic formulation there is one with great knowledge and omniscient power through whom the entire living world exists.
It has its origin, state and rhythm - lives can be saved only by the grace of such power. that's why
Many solutions have been presented to please this unknown power and get its favor. This only
Spiritualism, metaphysical, superdivine beliefs became popular. in this love
Maintaining diversity. Basically this is the mentality, difference in thoughts, difference in mentality and differences in communities.
The difference is visible. There is discrimination and fanaticism towards each other. At the same time, stereotypes (a
The way tradition maintains stereotypes - considering everything else wrong.) This is


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 29

This is the root of illusory egoism. It is clear that illusory egos are the basis of human being's social being.
The arrangement has not been made yet. It will not be possible to do so in future also. The testimony of this is that through illusory method
No formula can be determined. What is considered important is opposed at the same time.
It always comes out from. As the destruction of heretics – this is the voice of all communities. analysis of
That is, in addition to the stereotypes and values ​​accepted by a community, all the other values ​​and stereotypes are there.
Wish for their destruction. Faith is the root cause of all these conventions and egoism. meaning of faith
This means accepting the existence of something without knowing it. based on this belief
It has been seen that people remain engaged while strengthening their arbitrary conservative egos. Although all beliefs
Starting from good wishes, the situation of considering one's own good as bad as someone else's destruction.
Comes in. On this basis, no faith of any kind has yet been able to become universal in this earth.
Not done. With this method, we could not become universal on the basis of isolationist beliefs. because we
Humans have not been able to present proof of solitude on this earth. It means one in which the whole
It was said that the living world is merging or having rhythm; He has not yet met any person on this earth.
Has not been certified by. Every human being sees physical-chemical structures every day,
This is called creation and rhythm. In this sequence, the rhythm will end (merge) into one and such a
He is said to be the cause of all creation. The basic intention of both these activities is to arise from the same
That is, the basic element in which the merger is to take place has not been proved. make some speculations about it
Well, it would have seemed fine in its then form. Because every person has some beliefs. As far as creation,
We find the rhythm of situation in the form of language due to the combination of event and mentality, most of the people believe that
Are. In this sequence, it is well known that solitariness is mysterious and the idea of ​​solitude has yet to be proven.
Is also awaited.

We have found behaviour, experience and experimentally proven method, everyone can understand this fact.
Everyone can attest to this. Existential human centered thinking is its basis. on this basis
It is a natural achievement to experience life in a fully awakened existence. of this achievement
Expectation is there in every human being. We have it available. On this basis (based on experience) we can verify that
Do - Existence itself is coexistence. Coexistence is a rule, not a controller. physical coexistence
There is chemical composition and structure, there is nothing indicated by “rhythm”. We can name the structure as “laya”.
Are. According to the concept of rhythm, things are about to disappear, about to end, about to cease to exist.


<newpage>

430 Mediator Philosophy Coexistence (Existential Human Centered Thinking)

The traditions which are bent on the matter of existence, this is a complete illusion, because existence neither decreases nor increases. coexistence
Composition-deconstruction is an essential phenomenon in a book because consequential and consequential composition is found to occur.
That is, while these creations are being decomposed, the chemical-physical compositions contained in those creations will be
Isolation only happens. Mere existence of structures does not lead to disappearance or destruction of the things contained in them.
Would. Due to this fact, existence is seen as stable and ever present. It should be clear from these facts
It goes - Coexistence is ever effective, present, because existence itself is coexistence, again because in existence
The pure nature itself is ever present. This is existence. Thus we come to the conclusion that whatever
It is coexistence, not isolation. Therefore, it should be known to everyone that solitary thought is without proof.
It has happened, that is why accepting what is as the ultimate truth is indicative of awakening or awakening process.

soul, god, existence

Among these issues, the discussion about soul and God has spread in the human race in many ways. God wide
The hypothesis that the soul is a part of God has been a topic of discussion, despite the fact that it is a proven fact.
No one on earth has seen him in this form. When we approach existence through human-centered thinking based on co-existence
Only when we could see it, we came to know that infinite things are active in the wider things. All these infinite things are four
Are active in the state. The thing that proves all four states is infinite nature itself. This only
The present exists in inanimate and conscious form. The nature of the infinite thing lies in the existence of the all-pervasive thing.
Seen to be controlled, protected. In this entire infinite universe, the fundamental differentiating element of all four states is the atom.
That is, the basic element of various forms of expression is the atom. more than one contained in an atom
It was only due to the difference in the number of atomic fragments that the expression of various states became easy. These atoms, molecules and
Molecules have been carrying out chemical and physical activities in the form of structures. the atom itself
Developmentally, the position of completeness was seen to have grandeur. This is indicated by the name of living entity (life).
Was done.

In the human tradition, life is moving towards the awakening of one's own imagination and freedom of action.
He became helpless. Awakened life remains an easy acceptance. Awakening means knowing, believing, recognizing,
To survive is an activity. To prove this, to achieve such authenticity, all human beings
Has been interested. On the basis of these simple existence, simple life, community narrow-mindedness and scientific
Karma came as soon as there was a rejection of the negative activities being done to the earth. of awakening


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 434

For this, the ever existing existence, life and humane behavior remained the main point or the entire point.
Stayed. After careful observation, it became clear that there is a vast thing in existence, it is created by God.
Can indicate by name. There is no division. It is pervasive throughout nature. mutual
It is transparent to nature. Every person can understand these proofs. Everyone in power is immersed, surrounded
Just looks at the situation. Each one looks similar. The point of transcendence is known only then,
The energy richness inherent in an object is seen as strength richness. It can be seen this way
That everything is basically atomic parts, atoms composed of atomic parts, molecules composed of many atoms, many
The structures made of molecules are visible. Atomic fragments, these fragments in the order of their formation as atoms.
There is a certain distance found in the mutual interaction of. These distances themselves are vast things. such atomic fragments
We can also imagine division into various parts at least through mathematical methods. How many?
Even if we divide, the number (parts) of one will increase, and not any one will be destroyed. this spontaneous action
This shows that the glory of the One is eternal. Energy (widespread) is visible all around one. This
Energy in the form of power is transmissible through law. This becomes obvious naturally. This intellectual process is because
It is necessary that existence in the infinite nature of matter and consciousness is transitory and this transitivity is natural.
Because of glory, every thing or every being is found to be drenched in existence. This issue has been raised before
It has been made clear. Therefore, there is a comprehensive existence in existence, you can see it in our eyes.
It is not divided into parts and living beings do not originate through an unmanifested method.

The atom itself in existence is fully constituted and glorious in the form of life. The emergence of hope to live in life,
It keeps happening from, for. This energy is manifested in the form of hope because life is an inexhaustible force - Akshay Shakti.
Is complete, this has been clarified earlier. Along with this, it has also been clarified that
Chemical-physical pressure effect is not effective on the constituent atoms. chemical-physical
The pressure effect of objects has been observed to be effective on each other. This conclusion naturally
There is a wise formula for controlling the earth, air and water. Along with this, forest, mineral
Balance, its use, prestige, authority (responsibility) to balance the purpose as natural
It emanates from humans and is certified. All this is the sequence of awakening and its effectiveness and
There is splendor. In this way, life in its natural form is a constituted atom, which includes mind, instinct, attention,
The life force in the form of intellect, soul; Life forces in the form of hope, thought, desire, Ritambhara and Pramana are certified.


<newpage>

432 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Has been seen happening. The definition of spirituality is found to be the basis of all souls.
Because power is transitory.

Through the method of experience in existence, the fact becomes clear that life is a constituted atom, in which there are
Only one part is employed. Since power is transcendental, matter cannot surround power. evidence of
That is, any load bonds with each other due to the magnetic current relation field found at the origin.
After being free, it has become clear in the state of zero attraction. In such a situation, every object has its own speed and
Continuity is achieved in the limitation of volume, like this Earth is the solar array. notable here
The fact remains that a comprehensive object does not have any division and there is no difference between the nature of these four states or any
The nature of a state is not capable of encompassing any one part of its comprehensiveness. That's why units
It is limited from all sides, such boundaries appear to be surrounded by a larger object. From the fact that
It has also been pointed out and made clear that nature in existence is indivisible and present. Thus spirituality
The meaning of is also meaningfully understood, the indivisible present of the infinite in the vast. this study
That is why it is appropriate that the human tradition, which is always frustrated with mystery, keeps on wanting to get rid of the mystery.

enjoyer, enjoyment, indulgence

Life in existence, awakening life and proving the status of seer in human tradition, life is easy satisfaction.
And existence is a natural system. It is in the system that every human being is found to believe and be in the present.
Is. And it has not yet been proven by any means that humans can currently believe,
Could. Human tradition including life satisfaction Satisfaction is the basic objective for, in human tradition. this universal
In order to make the intention meaningful, autonomy in every individual, solution, prosperity and completeness in every family.
Solution, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence are the desired pleasures for human beings. Desire for happiness is at the root of enjoyment
There is vision in every human being. It has also been observed that solutions, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence are essential to life.
Happiness, peace, contentment and joy remain present. The basic point is that the features and collection sense
Indulgent enjoyment, over-indulgence, multi-indulgence till the present i.e. till the tenth decade of the twentieth century.
The intention was considered. Their conclusion was seen in this way that the order of collection, convenience, enjoyment, overindulgence
While feeling happiness in me, it does not continue - this is well known. While we humans have always
Sukhachatti has been expressed in tradition since its inception. This phenomenon i.e. collection-convenience based happiness requirements
It has always been a matter of verifying the fragility of ephemerality in every person. such ephemerality (happiness


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 433

Engaged in designing and editing the day-night collection facility to achieve the feeling of ephemerality.
Most people were seen in situations where they were engaged or desired to remain engaged. Last
The expression of every generation came to be communicated only in the verification of the ephemerality of things. Communicate this issue because
Here it is remembered that human tradition has been facing fear, temptation, faith and struggle due to the expectation of happiness.
Line is made. Manav has made this line clear in his combination of enjoyment method and trend method.
In the Pravritti method work and behaviour, the sign of prudence also remained at the core of the Pravritti method.

For some time, humans became afraid and considered it wise to find solutions to get rid of it. immediately thereafter
After or at the same time, the place of freedom from fear has been developed in the sense of seduction in the sense of sensual attachment and accumulation of objects.
And being inclined towards it is considered as knowledge. Due to these expedient problems and distortions, no one on this earth
Happiness is not a possibility. No one can be happy on this earth. The place of happiness is somewhere else. that god
It is God's world, it is home, it is the home of Gods and Goddesses, there you will find happiness. Such unknowns in this body's journey
It is necessary and possible to please God and the Gods and Goddesses. With such imagination many solutions were suggested
Went. Along with this, it was also hypothesized that air and water will be governed only under the rule of God.
Statements were made. Also gave a statement that every bit will remain governed. This became the basis of the source of faith.
Imaginations ran towards greater convenience. To find happiness in the worlds of such gods and goddesses.
Fear has been used to avoid temptation and their anger, this has been the basis of beliefs
Of. Which are seen as fundamental texts in all communities. Same thing in faith as well
Fear and temptation, which had accepted the defeat of fear and temptation in this earth, will be defeated again.
Complete beliefs with assurances of success in other places from this earth through the second method,
Most accepted in the human mind. Such waves of faith are still felt among the people of the earth.
Being seen in. The fear and temptation involved in this has become prevalent today in the form of conflict.
As the conflict intensified, the need for collection facilities increased. get it
Along with the trend-efforts of the people, land, water, air, forests and minerals kept getting destroyed. the results of this conflict
As the assessment has become clear.

That is why the above mentioned historical facts have been brought to mind here, we humans are basically happy people. pleasure requirement
Life is easy. The aim of life is always happiness, peace, contentment and joy. This solution in the form of human need,


<newpage>

434 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In order to prove prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence, life can be achieved by enjoying simple pleasures and becoming successful daily.
The system is the only refuge for him.

Order in itself is an expression of awakening. Life itself has been seen to be awakened.
Life itself has been seen to be the bearer and bearer of wisdom. Human tradition is glorious including life itself
Stay is known. On the basis of these facts, existence is in a natural system or destiny is awakened in a natural system.
Having and proving it is the only way to enjoy happiness. In this way happiness is the meaning of enjoyment, necessity
Is. In order to prove to be an all-round solution in practice, it is always expedient for the human being.
Thus we come to the conclusion, enjoyment is only happiness, peace, contentment, joy. such a need for life
To prove the solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence is possible only in the system,
Not possible in governance.

Religious governance and state governance on the basis of special and unexpressed and on the basis of being mysterious.

It is not possible to be completely happy. There is respect for special or special persons because of this, Shapanagrah Shakti
Or special people have the powers to harass as much as possible. Apart from this also see
Found that a special person gives assurance to any curiosity to be successful.

Even since ancient times, special or ideal people have been in small numbers. so-called normal forever
They have been living in large numbers. Respect is always offered to special people from ordinary people.
Came as soon as it happened. Even today similar expectations persist. This is well known.

Livelihood relations have been dominant in the mutual relations of common people. Along with this, state and religious rule
Being the bearer and bearer of culture and civilization inspired by the sutras, history till date has been reflected in the above four frameworks.
Can be seen passing through. The relevant conclusion here is that society is ruled by state and religion.
The formula for creation has not been formulated, nor has it been established. With religion and state, all the
There is acceptance in the form of communities, all that is based on struggle because till now the community state and religion,
It was not possible to have universal acceptance. Religion and state rule using tools like deceit, force and torture
Remaining dynamic is being seen on the basis itself. The proof of this is that according to Dharmashastra, human
The race is always selfish, ignorant and sinful. It is a religious program to get rid of it. on this earth
All the state governments believe that their countrymen can make mistakes, commit crimes, and go to war with neighboring countries.
Therefore, we can prevent mistake from mistake, crime from crime and war from war.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 435

This is the program of all the states to stop. Meanwhile, in the name of public convenience, public welfare, people, body, wealth,
They claim to do welfare work wholeheartedly and this is still seen. Such
Public welfare works in the form of telecommunication, transport, vehicles, roads, health, public facilities and educational institutions.
Is seen to be in. Only education of artistic science, technology and trade was established in this land.
Is visible. Till now in this earth, there is no justice and a satisfactory system in full humane education.
Couldn't enter. Whereas exchange and universal system is the whole soul of education. such behavior
Recurrent Economics and System for Education, Behavioral Sociology and System, Human
Consciousness psychology and system is an essential condition. production, technology, technical
There is a need to develop and establish prosperity in the family in a proper manner. a generation would have prospered
Yes, he keeps doing the establishment work to make the next generation prosperous. Human behavior at the root of prosperity
It is necessary to be polarized. Human Behavior Formula definition of human and forms of humane behavior
Is seen to be animated. As a result the family is found to be certified as human.
Its significance lies in proving autonomy in every human being through education and culture. Even if these facts are first
It has already been clarified. The reality is that every awakened human being enjoys happiness, peace and contentment and
No one enjoys anything. It has become clear that even the accumulation of facilities is aimed at happiness. with this its
There is also ephemerality and fragility, hence continuity of happiness anywhere in the four stages of human history.
Couldn't do it. Now only the family based self-rule system with its five dimensions is functioning.
Happiness, peace, contentment and joy in the form of happiness, peace, satisfaction and enjoyment of life along with human needs are found. it in a good way
We have been able to see. Every person can become aware of this situation. All happiness based on this fact
Is expedient. This is also the most desirable thing. In this way life is an enjoyment, happiness is an enjoyment, the things to be enjoyed are arranged.
Is. The human being along with the body enjoys the simple facts of solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence.

Siddhi - Miracle

The efforts of many Vadramayyas and many people were devoted to the issue of Siddhi-Miracle. for this
Experiments like yoga practice, restraint, shaktipat, shakti jagran, indrajal, hypnotism were seen being carried out.
Is. Apart from this, in many ways, efforts were made to achieve Siddhi-Miracle, which is also possible in Vadgamaya form.
Not found, people were also seen doing this. This is the review of all the good things that have happened so far on this earth.
There was no evidence, proof or rational path that could be understood through study method.


<newpage>

436 Intermediate Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Again, all of these are aimed at Samadhi (silence of complete thoughts), all of them except Pravritti Karya.
Results were seen in the form of efforts made to collect fame and fame. Whereas
There is an allusion to Samadhi, it was seen as a place after intense hard work. this situation
No method of Sarvmukh arises in me. That is why it was called spontaneous happiness. saw it to be right
But there is no such thing as accomplishment or miracle in existence. Whatever is ordered, regular
It is balanced and organized. The human race is still in the process of recognizing the system itself.
Have crossed the stairs.

All good comes from wisdom.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 437

Chapter 7

Jagriti Kaivalya

The word Jagruti Kaivalya is a familiar one in human tradition. Use these words only in a respectful manner
Has been done Despite this, the meaning of these two words is shrouded in mystery,
There was no chance of getting certified in human tradition. To be certified means to meet each other in tradition.
In and by being passed on from generation to generation. Only human tradition will prove Kaivalya or awakening.
Despite not understanding its definition and its scope, the most auspicious situation has been indicated. second
The law has become acceptable to humans. The form of awakening is knowledge of life, knowledge of coexistence philosophy.
To know, believe, recognize and live life and existence as it is is awakening and
There is evidence of awakening. Accepting and understanding life as a constituent atom, life
Life becomes easy by understanding and accepting that there is an inexhaustible power, a flow of inexhaustible force, in the object itself.
Understanding and accepting the five shaktis and five forces of activity, loving, interested in the life force flow,
The point of view of benefit is to be one's own and someone else's while being reviewed and accepted by all, one-
Considering that complementarity is necessary for the other, the visions of justice, religion and truth complement each other.
While paving the way for meaningfulness, understanding the situation and movements, the above perspective is complete.
Perceiving and experiencing existence by experiencing it in a co-existent form and by systematically analyzing the situations.
All conduct done while understanding and verifying was seen as humane conduct in itself.
Has gone.

Human conduct, values, character and morality have been seen to be an indivisible form which has earlier been
It has been made clear. Humane conduct in every human family is the formula for creation and survival of society.
Is. In the order of social structure, family structure is the minimum size. arranged as soon as the family was created
The need has been seen to arise. Living in the system is the most acceptable form of human being. arrange your
The fact that coexistence is natural has also been made clear, this is the first proof of awakening. Family
Only after living in the system becomes comfortable, participation in the overall system becomes possible and expedient.
goes. This has been seen to be evidence of complete awakening. including evidence of participation in the overall system


<newpage>

438 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Expression, communication and publication itself has been seen to be Kaivalya. All-round solution in Kaivalya state
Based on empirical evidence, it is found to be in the form of a continuous flow. This is the glory of Kaivalya state.
Is. In this situation, it was seen that the human need and life's need were fully satisfied. free from illusion
The situation is. The positive form of freedom from bondage is awakening and completeness. suffering from bondage due to illusion
is found. In human tradition, the reason for confusion from generation to generation has been the tradition itself. human
Being certified in the five dimensions of tradition is awakening. By nature, human beings are expressed and proved in many dimensions.
is the unit to be had. It is a unit capable of being used, being used, being used, being used, being useful, being useful.
All this is meaningful and fulfilled in Kaivalya verse. Kaivalya is achieved only in the realization of the vision of the seer and not in salvation.
In.

In order to awaken the human tradition, an existential human-centric world view should be developed through a logical method.
It is natural for human tradition to awaken as a function of being expressed through systems that are studyable.
The bearer and bearer of its evidence is found to be the teacher. Vaddmay as directory and
Only teachers can act as bearers. Capable of providing enlightened education to students
It is natural to happen. In this sequence, the coincidence of awakening of human tradition is appropriate. Vigilance is constant, justice,
Solution, truth is easy, its splendor itself becomes meaningful as a human need and a necessity of life.
Is. The meaning of awakened human tradition is to prove such significance.

It is also seen in the human being in Kaivalya state that there is no need for traveling in the body.
Does not remain. On the basis of attaining the status of Kaivalya Padam, the life awakening is complete and the whole life is completed.
It has been observed that the body remains alive after being formed. Awakening focused splendor awakening oriented
Through this method, awareness has been seen flowing in all the activities of life as a force.
Position, power acts as a motion. The indivisibility of force and power is ever present.
Basically there is strength, there are powers in the form of glory. Experience is essentially awakening in coexistence. existence easy
In co-existence, it is easy to experience the ever-present life itself and the soul within life.
The satisfaction point of knowing and accepting the nature of experience has to be reached. This is the proof of elimination of confusion. of experience
Having different experiences is a natural process. In such understanding, acceptance of knowing and accepting is formed.
Lives. This is Ritambhara intellect. It is only in the implementation of such an understanding intellect that the spontaneous resolution becomes as complete as the truth.
The resolve remains strong. That is why determination in simple reflection of truth is indicated by the name of resolution.


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 439

Went. This truth has been found to be effective. Truth simply exists; this fact must be kept in place.
It has been made clear. This name also indicates true innate courage. True realization through this method
Contemplation along with it has been seen to be easily celebratory. This life is a simple daily celebration. celebratory
The activities of drawing, comparison, analysis, tasting and selection remain animated and celebrated by festivals. all this self
It is indicative of satisfaction. It is natural for the soul to remain ecstatic through continuous experience and satisfaction.
It is only there. In this sequence, it is natural to experience spontaneous joy, to behave naturally and to be happy in oneself.
It has been observed to have a nature of re-awakening. Such daily celebration has been given the name of Kaivalya.

Daily celebration is the desired aspiration of every human being, life is naturally accepted by every human being.
It is natural to have expectations towards the accepted facts of life, such as truth, religion and justice.
Is. Such expectations are present in every human being. That is why all good is appropriate in, for, and for all human beings.

The most auspicious method is awakening based expression and awakening education and culture. This is a united society
It is the formula for universal order. Through this method, the program of expression through experiential method is education-
Being impressed and desired has been seen as a culture. To take these facts to heart
Must study “Solutionary Materialism”, “Behavioral Democracy”. human consciousness scientist
Psychology: Being a natural way of existence is always a development-oriented co-existence, hence there is a need for solution.
Only the solution is seen in the end. Every point of development, every link, every stage in itself
There appears to be a solution. It is necessary for every person to take it to heart.

Whatever we experience, perceive, think, depict, analyze, we maintain our mentality. This way
Being social and having a prosperous family is found in every human behavior. based on this fact
But “behavioral democracy” finds its source and base in humans. By this method only human
It has been found to be based on evidence. Existence is always present, human being is the prover. certifier
Means a unit capable of revealing, proving and understanding the evidence in the tradition.

Human tradition is found to be confirmed by behavior, experience and experimental methods. to be certified
Both sides are required. Therefore, the situation of enlightenment and enlightenment continues. empirical
It is through the method that experimental behavior is certified. There is an experiment because humans understand. experiment in itself
Doesn't happen. The observer of all experiments is human. In such experiments, in a united society, in a universal system,
For use as a means, good use, all the achievements that are useful, for humane experiments.


<newpage>

440 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Is found to be in the form of. Along with this it is also assessed, human and natural imbalance
It becomes clear that all the experiments done for this are futile. Thus in experiments, whatever we
We find that it exists only in the form of things related to general aspiration and ambition. Today
In such a situation, the mentality required to attain these things has easily become widespread.
Is. Their use, proper use and usefulness have not been realized. That is why their wastage
That is, there is a possibility of wastage due to inhumanity, its mitigation, solution, solution is humanity.
To know, accept, recognize, live a complete system, system, universal system based on policy, an integral society.
need to. This existential human-centered thinking and knowledge is the complete method of spontaneous coexistence.
The family based self-rule system has to be realised.

After the implementation of the system, the futility of governance is understood. As a result deceit, force
Treason, rebellion, exploitation and war become meaningless. as well as a humane method
In order to solve, prosper, fearlessly, co-exist, from, for, program, trend, mindset, concept
And experience being universally accessible remains included in the system's motion.

Humanistic system, speed, multidimensional expression and its evaluation in order to achieve fulfillment, satisfaction and
It is a reviewable system. All expressions, communications, publications made by humans within themselves
After proving it in practice, evaluating it is considered as acceptance of success.
Is. The evaluation of all the activities done in the awakened tradition is integral to the humane system.
Due to this, evaluation has always been found to be an easy solution. system in human tradition spontaneous method
Only by living can prove the art of living. This fact has been well observed. Its
It is also noted that there is no way we lived before the law.
All of them are trying to survive.

Living happens spontaneously in at least three dimensions. Only then will there be joy in living in the system and
Happiness starts coming automatically. Access to justice (justice delivery and access) should include such three dimensions.
Ease of access), ease of production and ease of exchange is the experience gained in every family system.
Does. More and more people prove their participation in all five dimensions in a humane system.
Does. This is along with the above three, accessibility to education-culture and accessibility to health-control. these
Due to behavioral reasons, humans have been observed in awakened and awakened states. it's for everyone


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 444

Is expedient. These two conditions have been named respectively as completeness of action and completeness of conduct. of conduct
It is easy to participate in a huge, bigger and bigger system only in the vastness. total
The successful nature of the process is evaluated in terms of resolution and prosperity. fearlessness, coexistence
Humanity is a function of perfect conduct. These facts have been well observed. In this way every family
Humane education - system of living as a culturally autonomous human being and family human being and
It is easy to present proof of participation in the overall system. Spontaneity means conscious proof
Easy movement is easy. Awakening is always appropriate. Only after this tradition was awakened
It is available to all. Human need, life's need is the universal expectation. This is the proof of awakening and Kaivalya
Is.

Knowledge of life, philosophy of coexistence, humane conduct, understanding of facts easily and systematically.
Has been seen to happen. In order to reveal such simple facts and to popularize them,
It gets certified in sequence. As a result, they are also experienced. In this way, daily evidence and experience are easy.
It has been seen to be accomplished in form itself. This is the glory of Kaivalya and awakening.

Existence is always present and also expressed. An unexpressed object in existence or indicated by a name
Is not an object. Existence is not a mystery because it is the absolute truth. existence ever present
For a human being who understands the reason, it is very simple and not complicated. hence indivisible in existence
Due to being in the state of human knowledge, in this state, capable of proving the significance of, from, for.
is also. Due to all these reasons, awakening and Kaivalya can be proved through empirical method. human
Tradition can also be its bearer. This is the significance of the state of knowledge.

Man is the basic system of life

It is universally accepted that the human being found in the state of knowledge is an original expression of himself. of this originality
Basically, he tried to identify the breed on the basis of its structure and structure.
I kept coming. Along with this, i.e. along with body structure, variation in color was also observed. these issues
But most of the time man spends himself in arbitrary thinking. In this sequence, as with human, human
It is well known that brutalities have also been committed. This happened in the initial period itself i.e. human existence on this earth.
It is understood on the basis of events that occurred shortly after its incarnation. Thereafter


<newpage>

442 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Also, due to various reasons, efforts were made to give different superiority to the communities, make Vaddmay
Went and based on them the code of conduct was explained. So far the only conclusion that has been reached is that the universal form
The method of identifying humans was not established. Whereas this effort has been going on since the distant past.

As man continued to make himself meaningful in more and more dimensions, the more
More complications kept coming. Man is facing all these frustrations and tortures through covert methods.
He also tried hard to nurture the goodness in himself. Even after doing all this, good things
The satisfaction point could not be found anywhere. In all these contradictory developments, humans are struggling to recognize themselves.
Kept the desire intact. This is mainly the gift of tradition. In this sequence, the four mentioned earlier
The passing of great personalities. In these, human beings from different communities are seen rising and falling.

The main confusion is this: is it a system based on human body or a system based on life? If life is fundamental
There is a system, what is life in such a situation? How it is? Why is it? He is burdened with these questions. answer to
Including the study process through materialistic, metaphysical and spiritualistic methods and superdivine methods.
Could not present any fact or imagination. The idea remained far away. The answer to this is “existential human
It is easily achieved through “focused thinking”. It is a method free from mysteries and uncertainties,
And it enters the heart sequentially. For clarity on this point, as required in different places
Presented the facts worth noting.

In the form of existence accepted by all human beings, there are many planets, the universe, this earth, water in the earth.
Existence of sea, river, stream, air, forest, minerals, animals, insects, birds and animals till old age.
Every person understands. It is acceptable to have many people similar to yourself on this earth.
Is. With this consideration, existence including humans is easily accepted as present. The issue beyond this is human
He is the observer of existence, that is, the entity that sees and understands.

The above fact remained the same even before the primitive man. There is someone else who creates all this;
Those who believed in this started trying to find, believe and convince the Creator. on this issue of the earth
All types of communities are trapped. Whereas in all these interactions located on earth, there is complementarity and evolution.
I keep working. To put it in another language, it is done in a controlled, regular manner.
Are. On the basis of development, every thing remains in its respective position and prestige. such persistent things
Basically, everyone can understand the existence of infinite things in the form of one thing and being in a comprehensive thing. same origin


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 443

Due to being deprived of the facts, we went to search for the creator. chemical-physical objects in order of composition and structure
Are. Using these things, man has created some creations using his imagination and freedom of action.
Have made, can make some compositions. Whatever creations humans make come true,
Deconstruction keeps happening. Whether in natural form, man-made form, or living form
yes. All creations have been seen being composed using them. Like the structure of a bee hive-
Structure, structure of bird's nest, structure of anthills made of termites, by humans
You can understand the fact of the design and structure of the hut, palace, bridge, mega bridge, road, machinery and equipment built.
We keep watching. It needs to be brought to mind, it needs to be decided, both these actions
For humans, existence is seen to be inherently sufficient. Whatever happens outside this earth
Things are always in the order of creation and destruction, with liquid and liquid, rare and rare, solid and solid.
Coexistence with others exists on the basis of natural rules. Existence neither decreases nor increases.

Existence is called existence because of the grandeur of being forever, it has balance, control, coexistence,
Expressions like protection, results, development, awakening always remain there. any such activity
We cannot represent or imagine what does not exist. Now let this planet be round, that planet be round
It is only on the basis of these conditions that lack of feeling can be imagined in expectation of any feeling, every
Absence is the country and the times. On this basis there can be no talk of new and old, instead of new and old
The sense of daily present remains appropriate. Existence is the form of all feelings. in another way like this
The form was named Astitva. Humans are the only ones who have the status of a seer and are able to see existence.
Worth understanding and explainable. Whatever has been done till now in the name of study or study
As far as I am concerned, all that existence happened only in spontaneous coexistence. The criterion of every study is complementarity,
Anything contrary to development, awakening, sublimation, adherence to processes and systems is done.
It is only the most human beings who start by getting worried. Like for war, exploitation, treason, rebellion activities
Every effort was made. No matter how much thought has been given to this activity, human suffering is
Have thought about it. Treatment of sufferings by adopting the method of oppression, warfare, maneuvers, war skills,
Materials for war technology started being made. In today's situation, maximum people and wealth are used for war and exploitation.
Fitted to. For this, treason, rebellion and exploitation became necessary. That's why the best talents on earth
Has been appointed for these tasks only.


<newpage>

Wb4 Mediated Philosophy Co-Existentialism (Existential Human Centered Thinking)

Trade was a necessity for war. All the wars and trades that have taken place so far, between countries and countries, first
More than that, suspicion and suspicion were affected in a fear-inducing manner. This is a fact seen by all human beings.
Treason and rebellion were essential for trade and war. Thus exploitation by war, exploitation by trade
Exploitation acts have been seen on this earth. To call a developed country which exploits excessively,
By the time mankind was ready to accept it. Whereas war, exploitation, treason, rebellion, social structure and society
It is not able to become a formula for glory. Therefore, society should be created from people engaged in business and jobs.
Complementing important issues like conservation, social balance, social control, not seen on this earth
Went. The basic intention of revealing these facts here was that what kind of human race we are?
Have come under the grip of tendencies due to which humans are troubled and along with them the earth also
There is momentum towards destruction.

Be it for utility purposes, or for collection purposes, or for war purposes, whatever things are required.
They have to be supplied from this earth only; forest minerals are the only source for this. whatever forest minerals in the earth
It was already in existence before the incarnation of man and only after that the incarnation of man became this state.
Happened on earth. Human beings have not even thought about the need to live as a united society.
As a result, living beings like animals had to show their indecency by fighting on the basis of race and color.
He has done everything.

Now, in the tenth decade of this twentieth century, the diplomatic trade-oriented exploitation system is being developed from country to country.
The point is that the parameters that have been identified for so-called developed countries, more and more
The currency of the country in which the gold metal is stored in the national treasury develops. this trading system
It is based on the principle that wealth creates wealth. Which countries have gold in their national treasury?
Metal remains less and the currencies of that country remain underdeveloped. More valuable, less valuable in another language
It gets done while both remain only papers.

The second parameter of development is military powers, strategic material, strategic efforts in which countries have the highest
Yes, it is called a developed country. One always hears discussions about exploitation through war. in this century
In connection with the wars, discussions about exploitation, plunder and plunder have also been seen in public talks. these two parameters
The developed countries in the world have now become interested in using the forest minerals from other countries.
All plans have been made for this. The meaning of mentioning the above facts here is only that the wars,


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 445

Exploitation, treason and rebellion are moving towards profit mania, enjoyment mania and sexual ecstasy in all forms. His
It is seen to be a mere human being rather than an endless resource. its supply from this earth
Impossible. That is why its vibration towards further conflict is visible. so get rid of
A simple, beautiful, pleasant and satisfactory tradition has to be created.

With this method we have become clear about the facts that on the basis of things (chemical-physical)
The system cannot be implemented as per human wishes. This life was seen to be accomplished only through the method based on awakening.
Is. Due to the easy completion of the balancing activity in life itself, the physical-chemical material world
In this, it can be seen on the basis of beloved, beneficial and profit-benefit balance. justice, religion, truth
Universal solution (Dharma) to human conscious co-existence on the basis of intuitive ultimate truth visions.
It is easily expedient to have a united society and universal system as a tradition. versatile expression
The human being is capable of proving the system and its universality only with an all-embracing solution.
Is. It is the prestige of human tradition to prove it in merit and eligibility, because inexhaustible in life.
Shakti, inexhaustible force along with indestructibility is always expedient. refined into systemic systems
Need to be promoted.

One who accepts justice, religion, truth, expresses, proves and presents evidence.
It is human life itself. This fact has been well observed. dear, interest, profitable activities
Man is seen accepting, expecting and imagining justice, religion and truth even while being busy in
This is indicative of this. In the proximity of the senses, the imagination of the beloved, the benefits and the benefits (unclear)
Activity of hope, thought, desire) Acceptance of benefits is found to happen in humans. the last of
Survey Rejection of loss, acceptance of profit. The remarkable fact is that there is no profit or loss in existence.
There is no method. Therefore, at some places there is profit and at other places there is loss. hence profit oriented till date
No satisfaction point has been achieved yet with the trading method. While humans are satisfied in every aspect
Wants. That is why wanting is the opposite of being. All suffering can happen only due to illusion. life is an illusion
Body is a function of understanding life. After understanding life, life becomes free from illusory sufferings.
It is natural to think of ways to make things happen. It is in this sequence that it has been presented for study.
Existence neither decreases nor increases, hence it is free from profit and loss, hence it is free from destruction. Thus
The grandeur of existence as it is in the ever-present form is evident. indivisible in existence


<newpage>

446 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is natural for humans to experience coexistence. The law of order lies in coexistence. Diversity
The mutual complementarity formula associated with it is legislation. Such a law is naturally destined to be effective forever.
Is. This is the proof of coexistence. Further proof of this is that the planets and spheres complement each other; matter, life,
The state of life and knowledge have to be mutually complementary.

Complementarity and being animated by the spontaneous method is the basis of the system formula. This sensitivity,
Cognition has been seen to work in a balanced manner. Cognition as knowing and perceiving
And in the form of recognizing and sustaining, sensitivity can be recognized in every human being and in the entire human being.
Could. In order to implement these same sensations i.e. to recognize and sustain, the method of complementation by oneself
It comes to fruition. Such embodiment of life is the glory of innate, inexhaustible powers. In this sequence the entire human
It is appropriate to sponsor yourself. In this sequence it becomes known and understood. humanitarian
In the form of behavior it is proved that human consciousness i.e. sensitivity and cognitiveness,
To know, to believe, to recognize and to live is the natural activity of a fully awakened human being. life itself
Of cognizability, human being is the bearer of cognizability and sensitivity. this fact well
Has been observed. Certification was seen as a necessity for every human being in a position to survive.
Is. It is natural for justice, religion and truth to be certified in such a certification manner.

In the body system, mainly Medhas system is seen as the supreme subtle system. medhas tantra composition
Appears to be made of the most affirming elements. It would have been obvious that life was networked with thoughts as well.
Because the Medhas Tantra itself is seen performing its activities in the living body itself. This
There is no such place anywhere in the creation in which justice, religion and truth can be maintained. Similarly, cardiovascular system,
There is no place to maintain it in the pulmonary system, intestinal system, spleen system, renal system, rectum, uterine system.
Not there. It was also seen that there is a place to recognize justice, religion and truth in the five senses of action and knowledge.
There's nothing. From these facts it becomes clear that the senses are controlled by the Medhas Tantra which is controlled by life forces.
It is clearly seen that the activities are being completed. Therefore life itself knows justice, religion and truth.
Has, accepts, recognizes, sustains. As a result, happiness, peace, contentment, joy in the form of life's aspiration
Suffers. While mistakenly considering the body as life, getting engrossed in loving, beneficial and beneficial tendencies,
One is sad, makes others sad. It turns even naturalness into chaos. Thus
Since humans are about to accomplish or have accomplished yet more confusing tasks. Now remaining awakened tasks thoughts


<newpage>

Experiential Spiritualism 447

Including a universal system, a united society has to be formulated in the sutras. This is the pleasant, beautiful,
It is a satisfactory work.

Bhoomi: Swargatam Yaatu, Manusho Yaatu Devatam.
Gharmo successam yaatu, nityam yaatu shubhodayam.

>R-5707-0 0/Runner


<newpage>



<newpage>

original text

“Existential human centered thinking”
Vs
“Mediated Philosophy Coexistenceism”

Darshan (Mediated Darshan)
*«Philosophy of human behavior
« Philosophy of Human Karma
*« Philosophy of Human Practice
«Philosophy of Human Experience

Ism (Coexistenceism)
« Behavioral democracy
« Resolve Materialism
« Experiential Spiritualism

Shastra (existential human centered thinking)
« Behavioral Sociology
* « circular economics
« Human Consciousness Psychology

Constitution
« Interpretation of the human constitutional formula in the form of human code of conduct

Definition
« Definition Code

Other
*« Options and study points
« Health Century


<newpage>

Useful compilation based on intermediate philosophy

introductory collection
«» Jeevan Vidya An Introduction
« Divine Path (Biography – Rev. Shri A. Nagaraj)

collaborative compilation
«Dialogue Part-॥
« Dialogue Part - 2

Published Book Receipt Email:

000/580958-02॥.00

Download published and unpublished original copy:

4475430॥5859॥.06

general enquiry :

॥0॥0010.3 880 0-॥. 0 (0|

Bhikshvapraksha echlajya nana[dhantaga 20tha9|/
“Jeevan Vidya? Activity Information:

4474/57-॥40॥587॥-9/9ध्व 0



<newpage>



<newpage>



<newpage>

