existential anthropocentric thinking

Simple

intermediary philosophy coexistence

remedial
materialism

Recognition: Comprehensiveness of knowledge and eternity of nature
Principle: Labor - Speed ​​- Result

A. King Cobra
Shri Bhajanashram, Amarkantak
District – Anuppur, M. Q. (India) - 484886


<newpage>

Publisher :
Jeevan Vidya Prakashan, Divyapath Sansthan
Amarkantak, District - Anuppur (M.P.), India, 484886

775-Ta55v3-00॥.00 | #09T558-29॥.006

Founder and author:
A. King Cobra
All rights reserved with Divyapath Sansthan

Contribution amount: Rs 200/-

Previous editions: First - 998, Second - 2009
Printing : June - 2022

॥589 : 978-8-956883-0-2

Authentic Website: 547444.॥80॥588॥.05
Printed book receipt: 000/Q528909558-08॥.06
, 54/70/4747 : 45457.]54554.00॥

Good use policy:

Printer: Yugbodh Digital Printers,

Samta Colony, Raipur, Chhattisgarh. - 49200

This publication is in the sense of 'all good wishes' and has no commercial purpose. its use and

Copies are available for private study. Also used in any sense (copying, printing, etc.)
Written before 'Divyapath Sansthan', Amarkantak, District Anuppur (M.P.) India - 484886
It is mandatory to take permission. It is expected that when using these concepts elsewhere

Full citation (reference) of the book will be given. Please maintain the sanctity of darshan.


<newpage>

Critical Materialism (9) Basic Concepts

basic concepts

* Instead of conflict and “struggle”, this “solutional materialism” is arranged as a “solution”.
Presented as.

* Instead of book and mechanical evidence in the form of scriptures, “awakened human being should be the basis of evidence”
- It is propounded.

* « In place of devotion, detachment, solitude, accumulation, convenience and indulgence, coexistence and
It is presented in the sense of indicating solution, prosperity, fearlessness (confidence in the present) in the system.
Is.

« The solution is presented in thought, as proof in experience.

*« In the form of rendering “Brahma Satya, Jagat Mithya” instead of “Brahma Satya, Jagat Shashwat”
Presented in.

*« Mystical, idealistic thinking and instability, uncertainty based, object centered materialistic
This existential, human-centered co-existential thinking as an alternative to thought
Presented.


<newpage>

Critical Materialism 0) Depiction of the Human Constitution

illustration of human constitution

behavior family relationship values

Behavior Family Group...Relationship Values

behavior village self rule family relationship values

behavior village group family relationship values

behavior village area family relations values

behavioral circle family
Behavior Main State Family Relationship Values
behavior oriented state family relationship values

united society (relationship value)

world state family
Universal Order World Rajya Sabha Partnership
Principal Rajya Sabha
Main Rajya Sabha
Arrangement Board Group Rajya Sabha Participation
Board of Management Rajya Sabha Participation

Arrangement Village Area Rajya Sabha Participation

Arrangement Gram Group Rajya Sabha. participation

Arrangement Gram Swarajya Sabha Participation

Arrangement. family group gathering participation

arrangement family gathering participation



<newpage>

positive materialism (con) option

Option

4. Instability, uncertainty based physical-chemical object centered thoughts versus human beings through scientific method
Could not be studied. Human beings cannot be studied even through mystery based idealistic thinking method.
Found. In both types of debates, human has been called a living being.
As an alternative, philosophy mediated by existential human-centered thinking method, in coexistenceism
Recognized and made humans to be in the state of knowledge.
According to the intermediate philosophy, man is the knower, the one who knows and accepts the existence of co-existence.
Worthy thing i.e. the complete thing to know is the philosophy and knowledge along with it is the knowledge of life.
The method of proving coexistence along with knowledge of humane conduct has become studyable.
Study in the form of existential human-centered thinking knowledge, intermediate philosophy, co-existence science
For has been presented by me to human beings.

2. Before existential human centered thinking, my (A. Nagaraj, Agrahar Nagaraj, District Hassan,
Karnataka State, India) Initiation took place through spiritualistic knowledge, Vedic thoughts and spontaneous worship.

3. According to Vedanta, knowledge is “Brahma is true, the world is false” while the origin of the living world was said to be from Brahma.

Worship:- In reference to Gods and Goddesses.

Karma:- All the deeds received in heaven (in the form of language)

In Manu Dharma Shastra.._ :-. The daily rituals of four varnas and four ashrams are proposed.

Among the rituals:- Sixteen types of rituals from pregnancy to death rites.
Valid and their programs are there.

After studying all this a question arose in my mind that -

4. Satyam Gyanam Anantam How is the living world created from Brahma false? of the contemporary Vedantins and scholars
In order to be curious with me :-
In Samadhi one got the assurance of knowing the unknown. Sadhana, Samadhi, based on the support of scriptures
Approval was given to complete the restraint work. I have experienced complete existence in a state of meditation, samadhi and samyama.
Complete understanding achieved through study, experience method as co-existence, living through which
As a result, an alternative appeared in the form of intermediate philosophy co-existence Vandramaya.


<newpage>

Critical materialism(a) option

According to idealistic scriptures and mystical God-centered thinking knowledge and tradition - knowledge unexpressed
Indescribable.

According to Madhyaya Darshana - knowledge expressed through verbal study is understandable and can be proved through practical method.
It became clear as to be accessible to all.

According to materialism based on instability and uncertainty, science is considered as knowledge in object-centric thinking.
In which it has been said that the rules are man-made. coexistence as an alternative
According to existential human centered thinking knowledge, existence is stable, development and awakening are certain.
The whole rule is to be natural and to remain.

Existence is not just physical and chemical but physical, chemical and life things are included in the broader matter.
The present is indivisible, this is the scripture sutra “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence”.

verification

From where I started my physical journey, my ancestors were called Vedamurthy. Vedas and Vedas in every home and village
Vedanta, Upanishads and philosophy related to thoughts continued to be heard in the form of language, sound and tune.
In the family tradition, worship, adoration and praise continued as per the Vedas.

In our family tradition, top class scholars, service-oriented and hard-working behavior and practice of work.
It was easy because of which I accepted hard work and service tendencies. question mark on scholarship
are.

, The first question that arose was -

How can the origin of the world and the living beings from Brahman Truth be false?
other question -

How is Brahma the cause of bondage and salvation?
Third question -

Word proof or bearer of the word, carrier proof?

Object sentence proof or object sentence evidence?

Scriptural evidence or pioneer evidence?


<newpage>

Critical Materialism (Sh) Option

Another question arose in the expedient situation

Fourth question -
After independence in India, the Constituent Assembly was formed in which nation, nationality, national character
There should be acceptance in the Constitution that people's representatives are eligible, despite not having any formula.
How is the vote-note (money) alliance giving mandate and public representative?
Secularism in the Constitution - one sentence and with it the protection of many castes, sects and communities
To be mentioned.
Equality in the Constitution – one sentence, along with the mention of reservation and its meaning in the Constitution
To have a process.
Democracy - In governance, there should be an alliance of vote notes in the election process of public representatives.

What kind of democracy is this?

4. To get freedom from the tangle of these questions, the help of contemporary scholars, Veda idols and respected sages and maharishis was given.

By suggestion -

(.) Samadhi was the only way to know the unknown which I accepted.

(2) Accepted Amarkantak as a favorable place for spiritual practice.

(3) Started sadhna work from year 950.
Sadhana reached maturity in the 960s.
In the year 970, the state of attaining Samadhi came to be accepted. my hope in samadhi state
Thoughts and desires remained silent. In such a situation, the phenomenon of the unknown becoming known is also zero.
did you understand. This state of Sahaja Sadhana is maintained for twelve (2) to eighteen (8) hours every day.
Kept happening.
In the sequence of Samadhi, Dharana and Meditation, I accepted the self-spontaneous system of Samyama. abstinence after two years
Being accepted as proof of being in samadhi. Even in the process of achieving self-control through samadhi 2
It took hours to 48 hours. As a result, the entire existence continues to co-exist naturally.

(4

I experienced. Whose Vandamaya “Mediated Philosophy Coexistence” as a scripture
has appeared.


<newpage>

Critical Materialism(Shh) Option

42.

Co-existence:- It was understood that the entire inanimate consciousness is connected and ever-present in the broader object.
In co-existence:- In the form of evolution in the atom, the hungry and indigestion atoms and in the atom itself
It was understood to exist and exist as 'life' in the form of evolutionarily satisfied atoms.

It is only in co-existence that it is understood to be in the form of a constituted atomic conscious unit - 'life'.
In co-existence itself:- From hungry and indigestible atomic molecules and vital cells, the entire physical and chemical
To be clear about the creations of life and the creation of earth and many earths made up of atomic molecules.
did you understand.

, In existence on the earth in the form of physical structure, life cells including chemical system process are formed through yogic method.

After becoming prosperous in the form of complete forest plants, living beings come from life cells only.
It is understood that the bodies are composed and the human body is also composed and has traditions.
Came.

- Only in co-existence:- Human tradition was understood to be in the combined form of body and life.

In coexistence, from, for :- Coexistence is understood to be effective continuously. this is the routine
did you understand.

, Destiny method:- Coexistence only by natural method:-
(6) Four states of existence
0. state of matter
0. vital state
0. organism state
0. state of knowledge

And
() Four terms in existence
0. vital force
0. misconception post
0. god position

0. divine position


<newpage>

Critical materialism.9॥॥| Option

(#) And

0 development sequence, development

0 awakening order, awakening

And awakening, spontaneous human tradition, participation in the overall system along with humanity, eternal glory.
It made sense to be. I considered this to be the most auspicious sutra and accepted it to be a wish of good fortune for all human beings.
As a result, consciousness development, values, education, constitution, conduct system, simple sutra interpretation in front of human beings.
Have presented.

The land should be heaven, man should be god,
May religion be successful, may everyday be auspicious.

- A. King Cobra


<newpage>

Critical Materialism Introduction
request

This book in the form of an original treatise is presented with the simple name “Solutionary Materialism”. this existence is natural
It is an expression of the facts of coexistence and is logically consistent with human innate knowledge, wisdom and science.
The meaning of Vaad is also the same – a dialogue. Dialogue means argument in the sense of purposes. human in itself
Dialogues, debates, argues, and observes with non-human nature in the sense of perfection.
Tests, surveys and analyzes. In this sequence, this Vandramaya is presented before the human race.
Happened.

The human race, since the distant past, has been able to express itself in the genres of philosophy, thought and scriptures.
Have been trying. In this sequence, the presentation format is a proof. Regarding naming this presentation
Acceptance is human innate. That is why it is universal. It was also observed that mental acceptance
Despite this, there was definitely a difference from tradition in getting certified in behavior with responsibility.
As is its top.

We are already familiar with 'dialectical materialism'. Its acceptance i.e. to the human being in the sense of conflict.
The struggle is understandable. He was not accepted by the human race forever. While tradition expects
The solution is seen as contained in, as - dialectical materialism, science in front of the intelligentsia
It has been presented as the basis of education. This is proof that the entire scientific formula is dialectical. Science
On the basis of the Sutra being a proof instrument, the educational tradition is its bearer. On this basis i.e.
It was on the basis of “dialectical materialism” that “erotic psychology” was seen to be created. such psychology
It is on the basis of this that we can introduce human “luxury-obsessed sociology” and “profit-obsessed economics” into the education tradition.
Accepted. Values, character and morality are being discovered in this dialectical forest. so far this
The country has not been proved in time.

The coexistence of natural rules, processes and functions as answers or solutions to these questions is based on this.
This book has been presented in order to convey it as it is. 'Solutionary Materialism' is basically
System is centered expression and communication. This is the complete non-human nature found in existence.
The study rests on the basis of intuitive determination. Understanding the Innate Magnificence of Existence Before This Presentation
There has been a need, its supply became easily possible.


<newpage>

Critical Materialism (0 Introduction

The solution is acceptable to every human being. To put it in another way, the all-round solution lies in every human being.
is allowed. Behavior is evident in non-human nature. Its policy principle is – “Each one in existence
Working in the system with one's 'self' and participating in the overall system." In this order soil, stone,
Gems, metals, atoms, molecules, entire bodies composed of molecules, vegetation found on the surface of any body.
The world, the living world, is proved in this sutra explanation. It remains to be proven in humans. This
To make the study accessible, there is 'solution materialism'.

The solution is likely to be proven in humans. Man becomes intelligent only when existence, life
And humane behavior should be understood well. Where will this come from? from humans, from humans
It is always easy to be accessible. It has been presented in this method.

Solution is meant as an answer to why and how. Complete solutions, rules in human behavior,
Coexistence of ultimate truth in the form of control, balance, justice and dharma (universal order)
Has been found. This is always expedient. Expediency means always being accessible and nearby to everyone.
Proximity is proved by the coexistence method. Meaning of coexistence with each other
Propounds. This becomes known as an infinite, individual thing, integrated into the wider object.
This 'solution materialism' has been presented along with the entire process of studying it.

In the second way, existence itself is glorious in the form of co-existence. The basic meaning of coexistence, in the broader sense
There is only indivisibility of infinite objects having each form. Every thing is certified as inanimate and conscious.
Every human being is a combined form of matter and consciousness. In this universe, atoms evolved and life came into existence.
It is the study of being glorious in prestige.

It has become clear that the structure of the human body in the uterus is also composed of life cells. resulting life
intuitively, consciously, understanding existence, existence, coexistence, development, awakening, chemical, physical
The sequence of creation and destruction is meant to be accomplished with the easy purpose of this Vandramaya.

- A. King Cobra
Sri Bhajanashram, Sri Narmadanchal
Amarkantak, District-Anuppur (Madhya Pradesh)


<newpage>



<newpage>

Critical Materialism 9) Index
index
chapter page number
4. Solutions and solutions
2. History of the Human Form 7
3. Solutionary Materialism 22
4. Evolution of the atom into existence and existence 24
5. Evolution of the atom into existence 38
Table - Five humans of the state of knowledge 54
Table - Prakriti Sahaj Four Stages (Mutual Complementary) 55
Table - Order in existence - Coexistence 56
6. Coexistence, complementarity and order
Yes consciousness, consciousness and consciousness 94
8. Society, Religion (System) and State 99
9. In the perspective of solution materialism-
4) Recognition of originality is the basis of survival 440
2) Human Diet 423
3) Human originality 34
4) Interrelationship between religion and state 38
5) Identity of man, identity of great men 47
6) Revelation and Reflection 454
7) Properties, influence and power 58
8) Artificiality, Nature and Creativity 64
9) Hybridization and Tradition 47
0). Industry, Necessity, Relationship and Balance (77
4)..Fear, temptation or value and evaluation 99

2) . Materiality, expression, culture and order

20


<newpage>



<newpage>

critical materialism and

Chapter - |

Samadhan and Dunandu

In the name of solution materialism, it is natural for many questions to arise in humans. Ever since humans heard-
Since then, due to fear and temptation, God has been considered superior in the order of theism and the most important for the living world.
I have come to believe that I am the doer, the filler, the destroyer. After some time the name of materialism came, since then materialists,
Materiality itself has been described as dandra. Those who argue about conflict consider themselves to be very scientific.
Are. Science is considered a systematic study. The essence of systematic study is to be logical. by this method
Or through initiatives, man considered development through struggle in the material world, whereas the idealists believed that
The world was considered to be created by the grace of God.

Accepting the two things called internal contradiction and external opposition at the root of saying 'indd', the contradiction has been developed.
Was stated as the basis. To demonstrate one's own glory or one's strength through struggle against external opposition.
Was stated as the basis. Whereas upon examining the realities, contrary facts emerged.
As :-

, Each one is complete with its environment.

2. Each one is a system with its own essence and is a participant in the overall system.

3. Each in its natural movement is towards development and in its charged movement towards decline.
Is dynamic.

4. The existence of charged motion and natural motion is clearly found in mutual naturalness.

Like this earth is continuously moving in its natural motion due to zero gravity. This is one of your
There is a system. Participation in the overall system is evidenced by participation in a solar array.
All the planets in the solar array have offered their motion in the form of participation with them. From this
This sutra comes out that “The system itself which is always present in its natural form, is the system with the whole.”
Is able to participate in.”

This earth is a system in itself. In evidence of this, all four states have proved the coexistence on this earth.
Have done. It is on this earth that the state of matter, life state, living state and knowledge state have been seen. all this


<newpage>

2 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The one who sees, that is, the one who understands, is only a human being in the state of knowledge. All these manifestations, on this earth
The root of being in a world has been its nature, movement, because “Each one is in his own nature, movement and prestige.”
Advances development and achieves status quo. Because for each one the nature is natural in motion.
Naturalness, environment and tradition etc., all these have been favorable.” to an atom or molecule
Or the favorable conditions for a human being to live naturally or for any animal or plant.
If there is a living environment, naturalness and reciprocity in their natural pace, then the
The change will be seen more boldly and abundantly qualitatively and quantitatively than before.
It is seen changing towards.

Let us see this more clearly that a human being is a seeker of justice right from his birth i.e. from the time of his physical journey.
Willing to do the right thing and is a truthful speaker. This is the natural pace of the baby. conducive to
In the event of establishing situation, environment, naturalness and reciprocity in human children -

, justice delivery capacity,
2. Ability to behave correctly and
3. The eligibility to attain truth is easily proved.

It is also heartening from the above example that the essential facts of adaptability in human tradition are clear.
Are there. It has been clarified above that for this, human tradition already has an existential anthropocentric focus.
The philosophy of existence in the form of thinking, knowledge of life, such right is easily established only then such custom
It becomes possible to establish the situation.

Such a situation has not yet arisen in human tradition. Whereas non-human nature i.e. matter, life and
The living nature is in the form of a system with adaptability including “twa”. These include study of suitability and
The method of studying adaptability in humans is found to be different. In these, the objects of material state
Looking at it shows that even with the more charged environment created by man, we have the ability to live in our own natural state.
In this situation, the process of self-development validates the situation. Just as an atom remains in its natural motion
And the second atom, due to its charged motion, is forced to expel some of the particles contained in it.
In the state of being, the first one (atom) is found assimilating those external parts into itself.
This makes it clear that in the state of matter the charged motion can also be complemented, whereas due to the human charged motion,


<newpage>

critical materialism 3

Not only does one get damaged due to illusion, he also damages others. to be prosperous in material terms
For, as long as all types of atoms, molecules and molecular bodies are enriched in the form of natural motion,
And it is clear that the charged motions are mutually complementary.

In the vital state, plants require a suitable environment to live in their natural state, which is present in the physical state.
Is different from. Plants are basically the expression of the seminal system. adapted to plants
The environment is mainly seasonally balanced. Seasonal balance means proportional rainfall, proportional
To be cold in form is to be hot in proportion. On observing the daily routine of plants
It turns out that all the three types of achievements mentioned above are tolerated to some extent, i.e. favorable.
Being can be proved. By difference of any ratio i.e. by more or less of any period
Adversity is proved i.e. plants die. In actual their composition and
In the sequence of prosperity, adversity is seen as its destruction. This incident is also called dying
goes.

This means that the entire plant life body and the human body are also composed of life cells.
Is. For this reason it remains balanced between minimum and maximum heat. Similarly minimum maximum water
Nature is able to maintain its balance in the form of motion only by attaining minimum and maximum cold.
Is. Along with this, i.e. along with seasonality, appropriate combination of soil, air and fertilizer is also important.
is the causative element.

The earth has its own balance of all the elements mentioned above like cold, heat, rain, wind, earth and fertility.
Only when the nature of nature has been clarified on the basis of prestige, the living beings and the human world can flourish on this earth. This
This type of nature of this earth is understood by every human being situated in the prestige. Astu, vital state
In order to keep our tradition and natural pace intact for the entire creations of the above mentioned five
It is a necessity for the factors to be balanced. In this way the completeness of life and vital state
The creations seem to have evolved from the material state, environment and naturalness are the coexistence of natural factors.
Spontaneous complementarity remains inevitable.

In this analysis too, instead of internal contradiction and external opposition, there is balance in internal relations and balance in external relations also.
Harmony is proved in their combination. This is a witness to the solution. From the above analysis
It also became clear that in coexistence, natural motion and charged motion are mutually compatible and unfavorable.


<newpage>

4 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Necessity, achievement, possibility, all these are studyable in, from, for human beings. need it
This is so that “the human being himself, having a balanced nature and a dynamic solution, can easily attain glory.”

“The adaptability and nature of living beings can be proved mainly in the activities of food, movement and reproduction.”
Herbivorous and carnivorous species can be seen among the creatures. structures of these organs and parts
Features are seen in. For example, hands and feet of carnivorous and herbivorous animals
And differences are found in the compositions of nails, horns, hoofs etc. Mainly intestinal structure, nails and
The structure of teeth is fundamentally recognizable. In carnivorous animals the intestines are shorter in length.
And herbivorous animals have larger intestines. This is a fundamental basis. nails and teeth in this sequence
There is a difference in the texture also. All herbivorous creatures drink water through their lips while non-vegetarians drink water.
All living beings drink water with their tongue. Hereditary method in all animals whether carnivorous or herbivorous
Tradition can be seen since. Like:- elephant, horse, dog, cat, sheep have their own hereditary
They are endowed with body structure and instincts which are the splendor of life. These means combination of body and life
Through this, balance and control of the entire species of animals is achieved. basis of balance in
In the course of identification, animals i.e. animal species have been found to be carnivorous and vegetarian.

The principle of mutual complementarity remains effective in all three stages of matter, life and soul. like material state
For the vital state, the vital state is complementary to the material state – this is clear. These two stages of life
are complementary to. It is proved that Jivavastha is also complementary to Pranavastha and Matravastha. Like- complete
In order to be complemented by the living organism, the substance is released through its feces, urine and body and into the vegetation.
To eliminate many infectious and invasive diseases from our stool, urine, breath and body odor.
Have been helpful. Excreta, urine and respiration of organisms are seen playing important roles.
Is. In this way, mutual complementation of these three stages can be seen.

Being the unit of human knowledge, till the tenth decade of this twentieth century there was interaction with non-human nature.
Instead of complementing them, it continues to damage them the most. Not only this, human human
self-inflicted with rebellious, exploitative and militant methods
Despite this, he is busy in causing harm to many people. These are problems from the distant past.
There is a squeeze. The solution to these problems lies in physical-chemical objects and life, things like infinite units.
And possible by inseparable study of comprehensive. This makes the solution concepts accessible to humans.


<newpage>

critical materialism 5

In the above discussion, there has been a glimpse of the study of all three stages other than humans. according to him
And at present it is seen that “Each in existence is a system with its own essence and
Is a partner in the overall system.” Its evidence can be obtained through supplementary method in material state, vital state, living state.
Clarified to be present. In the same sequence, arrangements for, from and for are also expected in humans.

“In existence, order is the solution, chaos is the problem.” Humans are still struggling with problems.
has come. Till now humans are doubtful about considering themselves as a unit and are also in danger. That's why
It is also possible to be skeptical or surprised about solution materialism. Man instinctively knows-
Is an eligible entity on the basis of recognition. Because of the belief that coexistence is a natural process
I believe that human beings can take reality, truthfulness and reality to heart. this is the reality
That “human is the system with humanity” and is the solution. Being certified by humanity as law
For this, first of all, a person should be immersed in the facts related to the holistic solution or in another language.
It has been necessary to be empowered. This has now become possible. The proof of this is that
“Solutionary Materialism” is presented before humans.

Many experiments are done on the basis of human nature's natural imagination, freedom of action and innate glory.
Does it or is capable of doing it. If we imagine, we realize that every person has his own solution.
Wants. Similarly, whether we want justice or injustice, peace or unrest, conflict or solution - these
In all imaginations, human beings easily accept facts like peace, justice, solution.

Man naturally wants happiness, even if he does not know happiness, yet he wants happiness.
Is in favor. Most of the human beings keep running after interests and temptations just for the sake of happiness. of this fact
After observation and testing, it is concluded that the directions in which tradition encourages
Or to the extent that he remains awake, he is able to direct the direction accordingly. Tradition means education-
Culture, constitution and systems have to function in an indivisible form. This is an easy proof that
Every community adopts some or the other constitution, education, system and values.

This can be seen by conducting observational tests in all communities on this earth. This also made it clear
That in relation to those four dimensions, man's action-free imagination worked naturally.
Is. The constitutional system and rituals established till now in one or more communities are all
Could not be accepted by the communities. Human beings in all communities have been thoughtful. expedient knowledge science


<newpage>

6 Intermediate philosophy Co-existentialism (existential human-centric thinking)

According to this, all the constitutions have been established with the aim of making fearlessness and peace accessible to all. Everyone
The hope and aspiration of the community to get education, values, state and religious system in accordance with its constitution.
Since then offerings have been made to it. Similar situations are seen even today. Thus all communities
Thinking about the facts related to the Constitution, education culture and system, under the compulsion of community consciousness, all
Work was done. As a result, the possibilities of debate and rebellion have remained present since ancient times.
This problem is clear to the world human beings, that is, it is clear to the communities.

Due to the above problem, inspection testing of the elements was conducted. The answer to this was that humans
Basically, in recognizing human beings, we have made a mistake in understanding the ultimate truth of co-existence.

The time when humans first appeared on this earth has been named Jungle Yuga or Shilayuga.
For the first time, it is believed that more than one human being has incarnated. The reason for this is human imagination
According to this, reproduction is possible in human tradition only by having more than one male and female. in this order
First of all, more than one human being appeared on this earth. In the first place, what kind of human
There are many speculations to make the incarnation possible. Someone's thinking is a monkey, someone's thinking is a monkey
Bear, some think it's a fish, some think it's a cow. All these can be imagined. it's natural
It has been found that many seed traditions in plants have been established only after one tradition,
And many lineages have been established in living beings within one lineage.

In this sequence, the research done in the tradition of Vansh Sutra i.e. an advanced form of favorable circumstances.
It is a spontaneous effort made in order to express. In this sequence, the human species descended
It is also possible to become human through biological means. In which the provision of rich medhas composition is in the tradition
Have come while living. No matter how much detailed study is done on this issue, all that study is related to anatomy only.
Will be possible. Anatomy is being accomplished in human tradition, in its own form. total body utilization
It is the medium for the expression of life and the authentication of awakening. Its necessity in human tradition
Is. Hence, it is easy for human history to be related to human beings.

“Nityam Yaatu Shubhodayam”

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism

Chapter 2

history of the human form

(.) Community History

In this way, the primitive man started his physical journey in one place or country, or more than one country.
Or started in place – this question forces man to think. its true simple answer
It is said that in ancient times, one family recognized another family on the basis of race. This is the first and
A historical mistake or incident occurred. Today we know that the basis of race is geographical, natural conditions.
Is. The basis of color is also geographical and natural conditions. Worship and prayers based on imagination
Was created. The basis of spiritual practice was based on loyalty rather than superiority. all the processes called religion
Community governance depended on control and assurance. For this, the only thing that can be thought today is that
The awakening of man has been limited to race only in relation to man. Its publication took place in the form of a fight. i.e.
One family fought against the other family considering them to be cruel animals on the basis of race and colour. resulting breed
On the basis of this, community consciousness i.e. boundaries between one's own and another's were formed.

For the second time, humans of different colors were seen. to kill each other on that basis
They assumed it and started a fight. As a result, there are people of different colors and races in families or communities.
The walls started growing. Thus both these (color and race) beliefs create bitterness, treason and rebellious tendencies in the tradition.
Kept on thriving.

For the third time again an attempt was made to identify humans on the basis of worship, worship, yoga, sadhana and worship.
This was also similar to the previous two types of mistakes. Like before, treason on the basis of differences of opinion-
Revolts continued. For the fourth time, again on the basis of commodity accumulation, convenience and enjoyment, each other communities
Tried to identify. In this, along with treason and rebellion, exploitation also got involved intensely. war is
Already been there. In this way, human beings are motivated by diverse community motivations to reject each other.
Kept weighing the problems with ways to solve them. This is a history of community consciousness.


<newpage>

8 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

(2) Stone and Metal Age

Second History: Jungle Age to Rock Age, Rock Age to Metal Age, Metal Age to Slave Age (idealistic ideas)
And from the slave era to the struggle era which is present today.

In the rocks and forests, humans remained mainly afraid of natural disasters and cruel animals. As soon as
As the clan and village era came, one community continued to fear the other. as soon as the slave era
Similarly, the tradition of bowing before God, king and Guru continued. Happiness and peace from the king to the people
Kept getting assurances. To be free from sin, ignorance and selfishness on the basis of religious texts, philosophies and ideas.
The slave era was accepted on the basis of assurance. Despite this, the treason-rebellion-war did not stop anywhere.

After this, as soon as the materialistic era came with science and technology, the same struggle
The era began to become popular. The basic thing of this era is “convenience, collection and enjoyment”.
As a result, the fear of inhumanity inherent in humans was much greater in village tribes than it was earlier.
Lived in slave era. Today, in the era of conflict, the fear of inhumanity inherent in humans has become maximum. of this
Besides, fear of nature and fear of animals has reduced in this era as compared to other eras.

(3) ideological history

The third phase of history begins with ideologies. According to the ideas received so far
It is a divine idea, which is presented to humans in three different forms: -

, spiritualism
2. Supertheism
3. Metaphysicalism

These three views have been collectively named idealism. Original presentation of idealism
It is mystical God-centered thinking. Under idealism such mystery is considered knowledge.
Spiritualists consider spiritual knowledge as ultimate. Those who believe in super-divine knowledge as ultimate,
While these are all secrets. According to these three views, knowledge has been described as consciousness, comprehensive and true.
Basically, because the presentation of God or the presentation of truth is based on mystery, God too is the truth.
However, knowledge also remained mysterious.


<newpage>

critical materialism 9

The desire to know the unknown has always been there in humans. As a result, all those who are prepared on these issues
All of them got trapped in the clutches of debate. The main thing in this is that many enlightened and honest
People dedicated themselves to true spiritual practice. The diversity of practices continued to increase. Hence many forms of differences
Getting promoted and getting committed was seen. Despite all these tireless efforts, the basic issue
It remained a mystery. Mysterious glories were uttered in the name of God. "To please God is human."
It is the path for the welfare of the living being” – it was said. All the great practitioners agree with this statement
are. Spirituality has its basis in this mysticism. It is on the basis of this basic assurance that many people believe in God.
To be overwhelmed or satisfied by grace, to be in trance, to be silent or to become intelligible
Also tried sincerely. Such devoted ascetics, sages, yetis, satis, saints and great men are considered ordinary.
People also believed that God had blessed them. This fact continued to be seen in tradition. still
It remained a mystery and is still seen that way.

Meanwhile another ideology came, which was named materialism. in which physicality
Proposed dialectics as an activity. Uncertainty and instability were considered to be at its root.
In this way, instability and indecisiveness was achieved by the materialistic, wandering man, who as his influence
Through logical method, Prajna manifested in the form of profit mania, sexual ecstasy, enjoyment mania.

According to theism, these three tendencies were described as painful and sinful, along with heaven and enjoyment.
Accepted it and described it as a bondage to heaven and hell. At the same time, materialism accepted these madness above all else.
Did. In support of these trends, state and economic policies, processes and methods are studied.
Got it done.

On the basis of this, the concept of a opportunistic system emerged which remained in support of materialism.
The idea of ​​opportunistic system became the context of materialism. Its main function is to collect human
Has been found to be trending towards. The remarkable thing was proved that the satisfaction point of the collection, in any situation.
Was not seen in any quantity. In this way, materialism in practice is a matter of accumulation.
Got stuck and idealism remained mysterious. Thus, in practice, both ideologies
A meaningful, beautiful solution, complete and pleasant universal system was not found. This is the void of today. First
There has also been this vacancy.


<newpage>

Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

(4) Cultural history
Generally, it is believed about cultures that the basis of culture is-

4. Detail of decoration of clothes and ornaments and its methods,
wedding customs,

The way of celebrating with the attainment of children, food and goods,
The way to express condolences when someone dies,

एनचाकी एड

Dance, song and music, decoration of the house and way of welcoming.

Songs, poems, expressed mainly on the basis of devotional and spiritual glorifications of natural nature.
When reviewed considering literature, sculptures and paintings as forms of culture, from Stone Age to Metal Age, Metal Age
Cultures from era to clan era, clan era to slave era, slave era to conflict era, the best of the best
It is being believed.

(5) Economic history

The basis of economic history is a dimension in human tradition. It can also be said that artha tradition
How many times humans have been sinking and swimming. From the third method it can also be seen that human beings are sensitive towards meaning.
How awake or confused he was.

At first, in the forest (in ancient times), only the forest was considered as the meaning. The testimony of this is that the primitive man
We have been living in the forest and recognizing the forest as a food item, whether we have been practicing vegetarianism or
Non-vegetarian. After the arrival of the Stone Age, rocks and forests were recognized as useful objects. of human
For us, the form of utility has always been food, shelter and recognizing utility in the order of ornamentation.
It has been natural. There was a change from the ornament system of the Jungle Age to that of the Stone Age. in the metal age and
Change happened. These three utilities became the basis of necessity.

The recognition of a person worthy of respect started from the jungle era itself. Because while living in the forest, from wild animals
Struggling was an inevitable situation. For this reason, any person from the clan or family or community who is cruel
The community or family respected those people who were able to kill animals. As housing,
When it came to collecting decorative and dietary items, a variety of measures were used for this.
was thought of and implemented. In this sequence, when humans started developing, the more of these


<newpage>

Critical Materialism 4]

He was able to collect and became known as a big man. In this way, older than the primitive man
Two species of men (respectable men) were seen in this form.

According to idealism, whoever got the assurance of getting rid of sin, ignorance and selfishness got it in the third way.
Considered a big man. They often referred to and addressed him by the name of Guru. the two before this
One of the men of the species rose to the rank of king and became the authority on muscle power and war. Second
The collector became a participant in the business. In this way the big man in three forms
Came to recognize.

Even till the end of this twentieth century, the above three types of men are considered great. their ideals
But many other things, given in many other forms, continued to accumulate with the king. kings and gurus
The respect continued. Along with this, the things kidnapped by the kings also continued to be collected. of muscle power
Along with this, through the combination of warriors, war machines and military means, the kings brought other countries under their control by force.
A sad situation of looting and looting of things has come. As a result, the collection continued to grow with the kings.
And the respect remained the same. With this, mercantilism started reaching its profit-obsessed peak. Most
People have started considering business and job as dominant work in this decade.

If any person's supremacy is being accepted more than these two, then it is the one sitting on the throne.
A person or a person capable of sitting, who is a transformed form of a king. Thus for object collection there are three
The sections that came forward the most are - leaders sitting on the throne or leaders capable of sitting on the throne, working communities.
and business communities. Today business work is being viewed in two ways -

4. Trade without production, which is important or glorious, taking place between the consumer and the producer.
Is considered work.
2. If today we consider a more glorious work than this then it is business including production.

Thus the number of collectors increased in the twentieth century. Of these, those who through throne and trade
They were used to collecting, they too are with this flow. In this sequence, every community gets the royal throne and religious throne.
The definite identity of each continued to exist in its own form. The thread of uniformity between these two is Rajyuga.
Or it was established at the beginning of Das Yuga and gradually changed. Today both state and religion
Have become recognizable as different. All the formulas that the human psyche has received for this transformation are


<newpage>

V2 Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

There is a “collective tendency”. Today, due to the dominant role of technology and technology, excessive production
Has happened. Now it is also being heard that religion has no give-and-take or relation with the state. Whereas
From the beginning of religious politics, religion and state were expected to complement each other.
Is or was assumed to be so. There was an integral relationship between the two. economic after scientific age
Politics became effective. At the height of economic politics, voices began to echo that religion and state
There is no relation between.

In this century, in 1997, a state system without religion was established according to communist ideas. but year
The eradication of communism began in 1990. As before, diverse religious beliefs flourished there.
Are being seen. This also brings enlightenment that when man seeks solace and peace within himself,
Yes, by default the name of religion comes to mind and the formula of faith is its only support.
The inspiration for faith has come to the public mind only from idealism. Even today there is relief from faith compared to fear.
Is available. On this basis, the center of faith remained the king, the Guru and God. Guru and king are respected
Came. Seeing the style of governance in today's situation, the faith of the people has been broken. Faith
The basis of mystical religion and mania for interest is the triad (madness of profit, mania of pleasure, mania of pleasure).

In the present times, businessmen and officials keep changing as per time. Sometimes in the clutches of traders
Officials were sometimes seen engaged in a program to establish coordination between businessmen and officials.
Let's give. At present the entire officer community seems to be divided mainly into three parts -

4. In the executive, administrative machinery and border security,
2. In the judiciary,
3. In the legislature – All the leaders are engaged in the work of the legislature.

Many departments are included with these. There is an officer in every department. Education system is also a department
Is. It works under the executive. Today most of the officers are busy in collection work.
The legislature is in the hands of politicians and the leader is elected on the basis of mandate while the king is hereditary.
used to have.

Legislature is a huge job. Leaders for their participation or for being its leaders
Today only the common man recognizes and chooses. The noteworthy thing is that the legislature is governed by the common man.


<newpage>

critical materialism 43

Don't know today. Even the leaders don't know properly. Who knows about this, the leader or the public?
On seeing both appear ignorant. Because there is a question mark on the Constitution. the boat of such a legislature
Those in charge are the public representatives of the Legislative Assembly, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.

“Humans do not make mistakes while voting for sovereignty through public representation” – hence the mandate.
It is a symbol of sovereignty. The republican system started on the basis of this belief. wherever still
There are kings and people; there the king is the lord of the legislature and is considered the head even today. from the time of monarchy
According to belief, the king is the representative of God himself. “The king never makes mistakes – hence sovereignty
Is the form of a king” - such beliefs assume hereditary succession. Thus the public representative
In form, a claimant to the throne or a king coming from a royal tradition is seated on the throne. For these
The respect and honor of the general public continues to be offered. Every community surrendered to some throne or the other.
It definitely happens, whether it is a democratic throne or a republican one. So, this thing was seen in them that
Collection work becomes very easy for them. From this analysis it was concluded that-

, From ancient times till now, the proportion of people collecting things has been increasing.

2. According to the centralized government, guns, cannons, missiles, explosions etc. are used for killing and destruction.
The authority is given to the king or leader through systems consistent with the constitutional law. it every
Can be seen in the governance system. In addition to such authorized persons,
It is considered illegal for others to use the powers. That's why such people are such destroyers
In case the government machinery cannot be captured while carrying out its work, extremists, terrorists etc.
Known by names. This is a clear assessment of conflictism.

Most of the people have been oppressed by the governance methods, systems and processes and are still being oppressed.
To get rid of this, the republic system was thought of. Despite this, there is more oppression and less happiness.
Is. The basis of this happiness and unhappiness is based on whether the object is collected or not.

Similarly, there is another community which helps us in overcoming the tribulations by establishing faith and loyalty towards God since the Rajyuga.
Kept preaching for liberation. He has been preaching charity and non-collection. We call such people gurus, ascetics,
Saints, Yetis etc. have been considered and respected. The general public faithfully offers things to them.
Has been. Such people can be recognized as a class. On studying such great men
It seems that some of these people have found it easy to collect things or these people


<newpage>

Vav Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Have collected. First, this brilliant person, through his penance, yoga, practice, self-study, influential sermons and
He was at the forefront in assuring fulfillment of wishes through sermons and charitable works. All this glory,
Have been worthy of respect and honor.

In the context of the first four communities, their position has been clarified analytically. in addition to these
We call people the general public. In which first, some people among the general public have all-time
Production work in hand. Others have half-time production jobs at hand. third some people
Has short term production work in hand. Fourth, few people have any production work in hand
Not there. Out of the general public appearing in these four forms, production work is done by the zero community, part-time,
Today, half-time or full-time production work has been found to be moving towards money earning work.
going. Similarly, part time production work or money earning work or half time production
Those communities who have work or money earning work in their hands, they should be engaged in full time money earning work.
is dynamic for. Those who have full time production work or money earning work are engaged in collection work.
Seem to be attached.

In the entire history of mankind till now, earning and accumulating wealth has been a major task, a goal and
Looks like an achievement. Looking at those who lead on this basis, till now the politicians and
Only religious leaders have become visible in human society. The basis of their success and failure is also the same.
That is object collection. Thus, successful politicians are those who collect the most money and the common public
Teaches the lesson of hard work. Along with this, they keep giving justification for not collecting money.
Others, who are religious leaders, also accumulate immense wealth, yet the common people of the world do not care about these people.
The faith remains. They keep teaching people the lessons of renunciation and renunciation. self benevolent,
They keep declaring themselves as renouncers and non-collectors.

(6) Political history

The monopoly of power-centric governance, its integrity, its unity-integrity and influence.
Considered as “state”. When we tried to identify such monopoly element, then at the core “God is the omnipotent centralized power” –
It was accepted so. As a result, God was also given the name Almighty.


<newpage>

critical materialism 45

When it came to recognizing God, it was not possible for humans to recognize God because
Man is a very small thing and God is a very big thing. Then an idea emerged - that
Every person can recognize the glory of God in the form of grace and control. of this type
The assurance was prepared by the scholars of that time. It also established the belief among the people that
The king is an incarnation of God and he never makes mistakes.

Along with this he also preached that do not look at what kings, gurus and sages do, what they say to them.
Listen, this established a way of preaching. On this basis the difference between sin and virtue, heaven and hell
Concepts and stories were told. Fear of sin and hell and temptation towards virtue and heaven.
Fairy tales were created to establish.

On this basis, advice was given to do good deeds in the form of charity and philanthropy etc. Mainly in this
To please God, all the virtuous deeds were told like bowing, worshipping, praying. Air,
Water, earth, sun, moon and stars all are the glory of God. Therefore all of them are worthy of worship. Thus
Many grounds were built for worship. On the basis of this, the general public was shown the path to attain virtue.
Freedom from sin is assured only by the grace of God. The king was said to be an incarnation of God.
The king's honor and glory was the worship of God, it was said. Decree to obtain God's grace
Adhering to this is also considered as one of the virtuous deeds. Obedience to Guru's orders, teachings, and learning are
All were said to be the embodiment of virtue. That is, these were considered proof of virtue.

In this way, following the prescribed methods for attaining virtue or attaining virtue.
The person who did it was considered a virtuous soul. Anyone who did anything contrary to this was considered a sinner.
Went. On this basis, religious penal policy was prepared. Punishment, repression and atonement for sin were explained. earning money
Being engaged in work was considered good conduct. In this sequence, on the basis of community related activities,
For those who have been performing religious activities, they were declared good on the basis of their sins and virtues.

In this way, in every constitution, i.e. during the state period, i.e. at the time of transition from tribal era to village era,
Constitutions were made and established among different communities. some written and some unwritten, both
Various types of constitutions came into existence. The most important thing is to establish faith and loyalty towards God, King and Guru.
There was work.


<newpage>

V6 Mediated philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The right to decide punishment and justice on the basis of sin and virtue rests with the king or the persons authorized by the king.
Stayed to. In this sequence, it was also seen in the constitutions that boycott was also used as a punishment.
to be done. Establishment of religious politics based on the crimes seen in mysterious virtuous events.
Hui. Such establishments took place among many communities on this earth. Even today differences between different communities
Including the form of constitutions can be seen.

The slave era was established during the period of religious politics. This includes slavery towards God, slavery towards the Guru.
And a tradition of accepting slavery towards the king was formed. This slavery is called surrender in another language.
Went. As a result, most of the human race remained suspicious and terrified.

On the basis of changes in human psyche, events happening to humans also change in a sequential manner.
doing. Such as change of power, change of accumulation of goods, kidnapping, plunder, favor, treason-rebellion, war, trade,
Education, system system, culture system, every family and every person in order to move from poverty to prosperity.
I kept trying.

Approximately two hundred years ago, the scientific era or the materialistic era began. Theocracy opposed science
Did it fiercely. Ultimately the scientists took the throne in their favor. On the basis that the king
There was always a need to fight war. It was no longer possible to get relief from the fear of war with the help of religion.
On the contrary, it was assumed that religion would be preserved by being skilled in war. those of some religion or
Some religious states considered war as the main program for the protection of religion. on these grounds
The then ruling science believed in the possibility of sharpening its military power. as a result
Science started getting state support. Even today, only the countries with the most military power are developed.
The country believes. This is the basis of today's evaluation. Today this place is called the World Union or the League of Nations.
Are. This also makes it clear that till date the assessment of a country's military power, prosperity and
It is done on the basis of collection only.

The remarkable thing in political history is that first of all power was established by considering God as omnipotent.
The idea of ​​centralized governance was given. It became clear to the so-called wise people and intellectuals of that time to do the same.
Found. The basic form of this hypothesis was “God himself remained a mystery.” basis of such mysterious belief
Only human imagination and freedom of action remained. Mysterious God and Human Imagination


<newpage>

critical materialism 7

By combining the thread of faith with the faith it became a complete fabric. Due to this, humans face total dilemmas.
Just kept doing it.

Secondly, as soon as the age of science came, all kinds of virtuous enjoyments mentioned in heaven due to virtue became available in every street.
They started being found openly in markets, palaces, buildings, huts, grounds and roads. already
The lust for enjoyment was created in the form of virtuous enjoyment. This role was fulfilled by all types of religious texts.
had done; Therefore, without waiting (i.e. after death, we will get various wonderful pleasures in heaven, till then
Wait) The public mind became curious about the benefits of instant cash. This also includes
The aspect emerged that many things were forbidden in religious politics and were called “sins”.
Such as theft-robbery, plunder-exploitation, exploitation-accumulation, all the indulgences in the age of science that commit these “sins”
Got cash.

Today's situation is such that money is considered the most important thing in all mutual relationships. As a result, for money
The effort is being seen. It was also seen that money is needed for pure water and pure air. This
Thus, money became dominant in every aspect of body travel. As a result, all types of monarchies, economic politics
Transferred in.

In this era of struggle, “religious politics” was defeated and “economic politics” reached its peak. In this
Another conclusion emerges that due to this economic political struggle era and republic system
The possibilities of governance have been shattered. Since the foundation of governance is mysterious, the person sitting on the throne
After the revelation, God himself neither runs to kill nor save anyone - let it be clear.
Due to his departure and every person being a candidate for election, the very foundation of governance has been shaken. So, its
The alternative solution is the beginning of the era, which will flourish, blossom and bear fruit in the form of a system itself.

Hee.

(7) Religious history

Observation of the past shows that with the royal throne came the religious throne and with the religious throne came the royal throne.
Are immersed in and are fundamental to maintaining coordination with each other on the basis of governance and policy.
Efforts have been made, this is clear from written histories.


<newpage>

48 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is believed that the basic elements of religion are God, soul, God's sentence, God's command. While God is still
Is mysterious or hidden in mystery. All these God's commandments are in the form of God's words, in many original scriptures.
In the sacred texts, it has been considered in many communities. All the types of God's words and numerous scriptures
is in; All of them are not going to convey one form, one meaning. For this reason no holy book is universal
found to be. Any such holy book can be read in a rigorous manner i.e. authenticity, truthfulness without any mystery.
Could not make it accessible to study through realistic method, system and policy.

God was always mysterious. All the sacred texts based on mystery disagreed with each other. as a result
There was a debate which ultimately resulted in a fight and war. King's refuge for war
There was a need. In this way, the religious constitution in the form of a holy book also became the center of debate. every man
One religion or the other came to be enshrined in the Constitution and the State Constitution. religion and state constitution differ
Be different. The result of this was that every person followed some other holy book or religious constitution.
Kept arguing with the believer. This became the only religious act. With this method every person
The one who built the walls of his own and others' houses became a craftsman.

'As a result, the common people were forced to live with the mentality of strangers. this mentality
From time to time there were clashes with those following other religious constitutions. Man,
To kill a man, to slaughter him, he prepares his mentality based on his alienness.
Came. Even today such incidents are being seen again and again. building this wall of your stranger
The entire state management (constitution), the entire sacred religion, the constitution got reduced to the business of. Now everyone is in the same business
What is left with communities is how to destroy each other. Apart from this, there is no other thinking, human
It does not seem alive in the mind. Along with this, collections are also included. Developed Country Review Summer
There has been fighting in world class institutions on the basis of power, now there is fighting on the basis of religion also.
This is the only program left. This also requires a lot of money. many types for that
Research has also been done to save money.

The review of this research, i.e. the review of wealth accumulation, is clearly in the framework of exploitation, betrayal and plunder.
It is a principle that wealth cannot be accumulated without exploiting someone. In this sequence, human beings
All the powers i.e. fundamental powers like imagination, freedom of action, thoughtfulness are at stake.
Has been installed. It is fundamental in such a way that only humans have freedom of action, imagination and


<newpage>

critical materialism 9

Thoughtfulness is found. And every human behavior proves it in practice. and someone
In this state i.e. in material state, vital state and living state, such experimental behavior is not visible. That's why
This validation is fundamental in humans. This evidence proves the existence of inexhaustible power in humans.

Human beings are struggling on the basis of economic and political consciousness. religious consciousness i.e. religious
Knowledge called knowledge or religion, at least in the form of imagination and thoughtfulness, freedom of action.
As much and as is proved on the basis of, all the issues called religion are in conflict.
Got surrounded. In clear language, all the issues which are called religions became the subject of conflict. i.e.
Human conflicts of all types called religious or human beings taking the name of different types of religions.
Were obliged to. The faith in sin-virtue, heaven-hell, propounded at the root of all religions, declined. with
The struggle and lust for enjoyment kept on burning. For these reasons the struggle was adopted. today's
In this situation, sinking of so-called religion has become an inevitable situation.

The point to be noted is that as an individual, every human being wants happiness and peace and also calls for it.
Are. When the same person talks on the basis of any so-called religion, sect, opinion, creed, stereotypes, then
When he talks about “more accumulation” and “hedonistic activities”, then the wall of own-stranger
Just makes it. Whatever he talks about happiness and peace, no matter how much he talks, then his own and others'
That the wall cannot be built. But the expectation of happiness and peace is there in all human beings, it is accepted.

The historical paradox is that all religious traditions keep happiness and peace in mind.
Let's start. This is the intention of every holy book. Not only this, this is also the intention of every state constitution.
Contradictory when a man speaks in favor of the religion and state to which he is devoted.
One chooses the wall and as a result, one's own secrets become different from those of others. Whereas individuals are not sacred texts.
When he appears as an ordinary person, he has the same need for happiness and peace as all human beings.
Appears to be similar. This makes it clear that without the influence of religious scriptures when human beings are
Then his imagination and thoughtfulness are seen running towards vastness. same person
When it comes within the scope of any religious text, then the imagination and
The thinking is seen becoming narrow.


<newpage>

20 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

On the basis of this fact, the world human can use such a common sense in the form of human natural expectation.
One can decide that happiness and peace should be accessible to everyone. Then accepted in diverse communities, all sacred
The texts can be reconsidered on the basis of universal goals.

The proof of happiness and peace is solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence. Recognizing happiness and peace on this basis
Can and evaluate. If seen in this way then it is possible that there is a harmonious formula in all
Get out. If it does not come out then accepting existence as the ultimate truth - human thinking
Is going to do - is going to know and believe in happiness and peace - accepting this - can do research.
I have done such research. On the basis of this, existence is the ultimate truth and human being is the seer, knower and doer-
Is an enjoyer. Coexistence philosophy and its study has become accessible.

Man is the combined embodiment of body and life. Life is studied by life itself i.e.
Human does. Life itself is the observer of life, life itself is the observer of existence and life itself is the observer of the body.
Is. It has become possible to know and accept this fact through life knowledge. Therefore the knowledge of life is the ultimate knowledge.

Coexistence philosophy is the ultimate philosophy. As a result of the combination of these two, there is order in the human being including humanity in itself.
And is a partner in the overall system – the proof of this is heart-felt. Therefore only humane behavior
Have perfect conduct. This study has become accessible. Due to this, we transitioned from the era of conflict to the era of solution.
One can find the natural direction, path, process, method, policy and system of being. all human beings it
(Humanity) is the right to know, believe and recognize – this is what establishes it in the human being. Its
Can be tested.

Coexistence based human centered thinking knowledge is presented in the form of “Mediated Philosophy”. “Existence itself
is coexistence” is propounded and analyzed, as a result coexistenceism itself is expressed and
Has been communicated. Coexistence is humanism. Humanism is essentially meaningful in, from, for human beings.
And it is comfortable. Proving human significance in practice is the basis of universality.

Human beings are basically family humans. No work or action plan can be accomplished alone. for human
Human and non-human nature is naturalness and environment. Not only this, “existence itself is saturated with power.”
Nature co-exists and is ever-present.” Solution based on these facts
Materialism, practical democracy and experiential spiritualism have been dedicated to the welfare of mankind.


<newpage>

critical materialism 24

Human beings naturally want to live with evidence in the form of experiment, behavior and experience. all-round
Wants to find solution i.e. wants to find solution in various dimensions, angle, direction, perspective, time period
Is. This effect is confirmed by the variation in every human being in all countries and times. hence dialectical
In place of materialism, solution materialism was proposed to humans. believe-
The human race will adopt. He will recognize it as his own, accept it and become useful.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter - 3

solution materialism

Definition :-

(K)

(b)

Solution:- Pramanaput including Pramanaput concept in the sense of completeness and completeness.

Meaning of concept:- Have known, accepted and recognized. This is the concept.
Existence, spontaneous completeness, implies the inherent nature of being and unit implies spontaneous completeness.
It means that the unit is complete along with its environment.

Meaning of completeness:- Completeness of formation of atoms in existence (stage of life), completeness of action, conduct.
There is completeness and continuity of these three. As a necessary development and awakening for these
The knowledge gained is philosophy and conduct. This is the basis and pole of the concept of perfection. make it worthwhile
And to realize this, knowledge of life, knowledge of existence philosophy and knowledge of humane conduct.
aims at. Thus, the basis and goal of the concept in the sense of completeness is clear.

State of matter:- Coexistence of natural things includes physical and chemical things of nature.
To communicate with language style in order to know, believe, recognize and live. object
To be aware means that reality is visible and present. as it is
Its reality. Thus the following things exist -

In a broad sense the ever-present “existence” is a monolithic thing because its reality,
Transparency, permeability and comprehensiveness are visible.

The inanimate and animate nature, united in existence, is ever present in the form of things.

In the inanimate nature, in the chemical-physical composition and structure, out of the inanimate-conscious nature, which is in existence.
Working is present continuous. Which is considered as material state and vital state. of substance
Form and function are different types of atoms and the compositions made from them. head of life
Form and action are pranakosha and creations made from such cells. life form, all food,
Visible in the form of plants, living beings and human bodies.


<newpage>

critical materialism 23

4... Out of the inanimate-conscious nature united in existence, the conscious nature is the fully formed atom. the result of which
Is found to remain infected in life post, including immortality.

statement :-

) The whole object of study is coexistence.

2) The object of study is human being.

3) Every human being is a combined embodiment of inanimate-conscious nature. name of living nature is life
Is. The name of inanimate nature is body.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

24 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter 4

existence and evolution of atom in existence

Since time immemorial, humans have been trying to understand existence clearly and scientifically. in the same order
According to metaphysical ideas, it is believed that matter originates from consciousness.

According to materialistic views, consciousness arises from matter.

Both these ideologies proposed many arguments, exercises and experiments to support their respective views.
Keep doing. Till now neither has anyone seen matter arising from consciousness nor consciousness from matter.
Got to see it being born. It is seen that consciousness and matter are inseparable. Its
Looking at the original form shows that nature (matter) combined with being (consciousness) is the only existence.
Seeing here means understanding. Existence due to nature being indivisible, present in existence
The self is constantly revealed in the form of coexistence. After understanding this fact it becomes clear that
The eternal harmony between consciousness and matter is a timeless truth.

The power is formless, all-pervasive and the power is endowed with nature, form, qualities, nature and religion and is indivisible. As such
There is no place where there is no power, hence it is natural for nature to be in power. Energy equals power,
Also known as Void, Knowledge, Consciousness, Pervasive, Eternal, God and Absolute Energy. rich in power
Nature is in the form of infinite units. Every unit, being saturated with power, is surrounded and immersed in power.
It is dry and wet.

Power as a whole is not limited in length and breadth, no standard can be made for it, hence

The power is comprehensive. All the units present in nature cannot be counted, hence they are infinite.
Thus existence itself is vast and infinite.

Being is formless and nature in being is formative existence. Meaning of existence and indestructibility
Is from. The government is in a state of motion and pressure. Whereas in power itself is the whole of nature including motion and pressure.
Is present. Pressure means compulsion for attraction and repulsion due to environment (due to reciprocity). Power


<newpage>

critical materialism 25

Being formless, it is not limited in dimensions, whereas nature, saturated in existence, is made up of infinite units.
Is a group. Also each unit is limited on six sides including dimensions.

Due to co-existence of existence, complementarity and identity are always proved. Whatever is, remains constant.
Is and what was not there does not exist. For this reason, existence will remain as it is for eternity.
Because of this truth, every unit of nature imbued with existence recognizes the mutuality in existence.
It is possible because form, quality, nature and religion are indivisible in every entity. nature in power
Due to being saturated, every unit exists with religion, its witness is that of any unit.
Do not perish. Whatever happens is only change and evolution. meaning of religion which
There should be no separation. Because existence itself is co-existence, this is the form of ultimate religion. existence itself
Due to being a complete emotion, richness of emotion is seen in every unit. basically coexistence
Being a supreme being, existence itself became the supreme religion. Thus the feeling and the unit are inseparable present.
Since coexistence is the nature of existence, there is complementarity, identity,
There is euphemism and there is exchange in expression. Meaning of complete meaning in every position and stage
It is from the originality of the units located. Originality implies value. This means that supreme religion
(Existence) is the same in every unit, hence it is universal and eternal. exchange of values
And there is identity, because only in mutuality there is complementarity, identity and similarity. as well as each
Euphemism is a phenomenon worthy of explanation. Due to the originality (value) of the unit being ever present
It is controlled, protected and universal.

Being in the form of complementarity and exchange of identities due to the proven nature of mutuality in coexistence.
It is a continuous situation. Existence is truth. Truth is the condition of truth, objective condition of truth, condition of objective truth
I have a study hall. Studying the flow of exchange in coexistence reveals
It follows that nature itself, imbued with power, becomes the primary (or complete) object of study. status complete
Nature, imbued with power, appears to be stable. Nature full of state, full of power, its infinite
It is recognizable due to the nature of unity. In this sequence, each unit is able to identify the other unit.
The system came into existence. The meaning of the nature being fully contained in the state of being is complete.
It means that the desire for perfection or the original form of such a desire should remain within it. Due to this truth, every unit
A necessary condition for being in the sense of perfection occurred. In this sequence, towards the development of the entire unit


<newpage>

26 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It became natural to be oriented. As a result, exchange with recognition in reciprocity is a natural
The situation happened.

In the mutuality of situational nature, the situation of completeness and incompleteness becomes clear in such a way that situational nature
Being a group of infinite units situated in existence, reciprocity is an inevitable condition.
Every unit contained in the whole is active and developing only for the sake of perfection.

The nature immersed in the situated being is prone to development and awakening till the experience in the being. Development
It means completeness, functionality and conduct and its continuity. meaning of awakening
It is about solution and authenticity. The rule and its continuity in the unit is evident from the fact that the unit
His control and glory are evident. This unit + environment – ​​unit as a whole. This only
It is indicative of its continuity.

“Incompleteness is evident in the sense of completeness.” Because there is mutual utility and complementarity in co-existence. this complementarity
It is published in material state, vital state, living state and knowledge state. In the state of knowledge, only human beings are counted.
Due to human being being the combined form of matter and consciousness and being in the state of knowledge, Karma
The system of being independent while doing and being dependent while enjoying the fruits is contained in them only.

Freedom is a fundamental revelation in the course of development and awakening. Unit for freedom hence launched
It became increasingly clear that due to the combination of environment and nature, it became an inevitable situation. in the same order
In India, perfection in the desired unit has been an eternal condition, hence the development in the order of perfection is clear.
The first stage of development or the first stage of perfection is formational perfection. such a forming unit organism
I have been working only with the hope of survival. This makes it clear that development in the sense of completeness
Existence is ever present and clear. The second stage of perfection is the human being of the state of knowledge in the form of completeness of action.
The third stage of solution and perfection in the form of a system with its essence is perfection of conduct i.e.
It is a long-standing expectation to be certified with the utmost gratitude in the form of authenticity. This inanimate-consciousness
Coexistence is found to be meaningful and makes sense.

Morphological existence :-

The basic unit of nature is the atom. Because development takes place in atoms only. each atom conforming
Is atomic. It is mandatory to have more than one atomic fragment in every formation. former forms of atoms


<newpage>

critical materialism 27

(Atomic fragments) do not develop. The molecular structures of the atom indicate the symbolism of evolution.
publish, but development does not occur, because the evolved unit i.e. life is not of the anatomical structure.
Is published and communicated through.

In the course of evolution itself, nature emerges into two categories and four stages. Two classes of nature, inanimate and animate
Is. The four states of nature are the state of matter, the state of life, the state of life and the state of knowledge. cycle in nature
And there are four types of types of liberation. Like- Pranapada Chakra, Bhrantipad Chakra, Devpad Chakra and Padamukti.
(Divyapad or Purnapad) In this sequence, the development of nature in existence and its history is always expedient.
Is.

In existence, nature is naturally manifesting its entire diversity in the course of evolution. This is a continuous action.
The evolution of existence is an eternal system, because existence itself, being co-existent, is interconnected in nature.
Exchange is a natural process. The exchange is self-explanatory in both its cases.
Satisfaction or natural behavior is found after exchange. This means that
The unit in which the input occurs not only has natural motion, but also the one from which it is provided,
After that there are natural movements in it also. Coexistence is proved by this method.

Existence is coexistence:-

There is diversity in nature. The basic form of diversity is many conditions in matter or in nature. in nature
Many situations are in development. Due to existence itself being co-existent, every unit of nature
The formula of coexistence lies in the mutuality of things. (Because infinite units of nature interact with each other.)
It is provided.) Coexistence is the formula and form of complementarity. Complementarity is meaningful in the sense of development.
Development is a continuous state of existence. To see the existence of many positions and conditions in the course of development
gets to. Nature is also denoted by the name of substance. The meaning of substance is that there is difference of meaning from the difference of words.
It is from the things that can reveal the difference in meaning or from the things that reveal the difference in meaning from the word difference. meaning of object
The ability to illuminate realities is abundant. In this way, objects and substances in nature
The concept becomes clear.

Due to nature being constantly active in existence, labor, speed and result are indivisible in every action.
The present remains. Due to this truth, the results and development in nature are clear. evolution and development


<newpage>

28 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is visible in the form of diversity in existence. This situation proves to be the basic object of study.
The ability to study is found only in humans. Human beings are also integral or inseparable from existence.
is the unit. There is no greater object or basis for study than existence. Therefore reality in existence,
There is ruthlessness in the study of reality and truth.

Development in existence is a continuous process:-

The basic inspiration or spark of development lies continuously in nature imbued with existence. Expression of “Self”
The self-spontaneity in the “tva” and the environment and the naturalness of the spontaneous usefulness-completion are evident.
Being is a practical process. It is seen in inanimate-conscious nature. This means that
It is said that the one who expresses his powers voluntarily or spontaneously is in the form of inspiration.
Is countable. This is evidence that each unit remains active on its own.

Germination is seen in such a way that when a seed is found in its natural state then it germinates.
The process of becoming begins. Even though there is a seed, it cannot germinate without naturalness.
In this way, it becomes clear that the action and inspiration occurring in oneself due to the combination of naturalness is one's own.
It is the act of expressing grandeur in a self-motivated manner. The reason for this is the nature of those in power.
One has to be awakened, developed and experienced in power. Development is constantly shining in existence. this four
The stages are first the state of matter, second stage of life, third stage of life and fourth stage of knowledge.

Variations in vital state and material state are based on composition and chemical combinations. Such
The atom has diversity in its chemical and physical composition and state. diversity of atoms in
Based on the number of fragments contained. From these facts it became clear that the composition and the status of the creations
At its core is chemical and physical or elemental combination. From this it follows that in power
The saturated energetic nature is endowed with many elements in its original form of atom. As a result molecules and
There is a system of diversity in the molecular forms in themselves.

Living beings and the human body are composed of vital cells. Creations look like development but are not development
Is, because that which remains is not more than that. The state of being and the state of knowledge are inanimate and conscious.
Is a joint publication of. The creations of matter and life form are inanimate nature. of life and knowledge


<newpage>

critical materialism 29

Nature is the combined nature of matter and consciousness. The structure of living beings and human body is also dependent on heredity.
it occurs. That is why the body is clearly in the form of inanimate nature.

The conscious unit is a fully formed atom in its elemental form. Changes in form during evolution in atoms
Properties change with time. Constituent completeness means the number of atomic fragments required to form an atom.
Existence is a natural arrangement, due to the integration of all those atomic parts. that atom in the conformational state
Neither any atomic fraction increases nor any fraction decreases. atoms constituted by this truth
It has inexhaustible power and strength along with stability. of quantitative change in the constituent atom (life)
There is change in properties without any reason. It lasts from confusion to awakening.

It is because of the living and human nature being the joint embodiment of inanimate and conscious that the body is transformed through life.
Liveliness is revealed in. Because existence itself is co-existence, nature is in the form of mutual complementarity.
Is ever present. This is the main action form of development. In this sequence, joint publication of Jad-Chaitanya
This is also a natural situation. This is also the order of destiny. Every entity coexists in nature
Because existence itself is coexistence. Due to this truth, co-existence of matter and consciousness (life is full of formation
Coexistence was proved between atoms) and structure (structure of living cells). coexistence continual complementarity
is clear in meaning. Thus existence is development, development is order, order is order, order is itself.
It is destiny.

More power and force illuminates through less power and force, because of force and power.
Excess is meaningful in the sense of decay and inexhaustibility. Inexhaustible force and power of each consciousness
Is present equally in the unit. Whereas the decay of power in every unit of inanimate nature
(Variability) is obvious. Due to this truth, it is proved that the grossness of inanimate nature is its
It is a necessary condition due to the decay of powers, that is, organizational bondage is natural. While Chaitanya
The unit is essentially the same atom; being a constitutive atom, its subtlety is automatically
Is explained. In this way, because the subtlety and inexhaustible glory of life is evident, this fact is beyond doubt.
It is proved in this form that the body composed of vital cells has less strength and power as compared to the conscious nature.
Less powerful. Also, body is in gross form and life is in subtle form. That's why less power less
The manifestation of more power and more force through force proved to be universal.


<newpage>

30 Intermediate Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The control itself is expressed in the form of rules. As a result, each unit interacts with each other as per the rules.
There is a system of identification. This is the meaning of control. of each unit to identify each other
There has to be completeness in oneself. The basic element of mutual recognition and the form of control is power in itself.
There is only richness and energy in it. As a result of being immersed in power, there is a void on all sides of the unit.
Is seen to happen. Staying wet is strength itself. This is self-evident from the fact that
That it is wet because the power is transitory. From this process it becomes clear that we
No matter how many divisions are made, every part of it appears immersed, surrounded and wet.
gives. Along with this it is also clear that the entity does not get destroyed and there is evidence of this.
That the smallest and largest units are continuously active. activity itself indicates force
And the verb itself indicates being in control. In this way, control of the unit due to being surrounded by power,
Activity is seen due to being immersed and strength is seen due to being wet.

Control, force and activity are present in an indivisible form in every unit and have their natural motion.
Are similar in. This fact makes it clear that each unit is polarized in its entirety.
Polarity refers to stability of behavior. Completeness means control, activity and strength.
Is from. Control efficiency and strength are the eternal glory of every unit. it will never be defeated
Would. Due to the inherent nature of existence, there is no separation of the object from the existence. for this reason
The glory of the entity proves to be eternal and constant. Stability means continuity of existence and action.
Is in continuity.

The nature of each unit is splendor in motion.

Every physical-chemical action is an indivisible present of labour, motion and result.
Motion is the combined form of labor and result.

Labor is the combined form of motion and result.

It is the result of labor and motion combined.

Consciousness in the atom -

The destination of movement is conduct perfection.

The action is complete in the resting form of labour.

The result is immortality as constituted completeness (life atom).


<newpage>

critical materialism 34

Every atomic reaction is magnificent along with the path of motion of its atomic fragments. This is the path of that atom
There is a line of control and also a border. Within the limits of such a path, each atom contains the entire
The atom is defined by the arrangement of its parts. This means that in every atom
Each atomic part contained in its mutuality explains its existence at a certain distance.
Discipline is highlighted as an integral part of education. of particles in each such atom
The incidence is seen increasing.

This process is called decay of some atomic fragments from one atom and absorption into another atom.
Seen as being transformed into or formed into another atom. In this sequence, completeness of formation is important.
This is evidenced by the abundance of inexhaustible force and inexhaustible power. Conscious force and inexhaustible nature
The power is clear. This is the immediate result process. Atoms with different numerical values ​​in the same order
Appear to exist. The atoms themselves, endowed with different numbers of such atomic fragments, are of different species.
Are counted in. This is the meaning of elemental change, state, expression, revelation and knowledge.

In the course of evolution of an atom, there comes a period in which the number of fragments required for the formation of that atom
There is a need for all of them, they are all included, at the same time it becomes complete. of completeness
The implication is that there is satisfaction for, from, in that formation. This is the immortality of the result and the state of consciousness. in this post
Each unit is equal in force and power. of the entire species including the constituent atoms
Atomic existence is ever present through spontaneous coexistence. Because life force is inexhaustible
Humans can observe the results of their experiments with atoms involved in chemical-physical activities.
Is able to recognize.

In every unit of motion, rotation is calculated circularly and vibrationally. at the same pace and environment
Transfer under duress is proved. Space means equilibrium energy or void and energy.
Is. Because each unit is a body of matter limited on six sides. The nature of “and” is zero or existence.
It is only there. Every unit is situated in mutuality in natural motion or charged motion. charged motion
The main reason is based on the pressure caused by the combination of nature and environment. as well as
It is also seen that the natural environment required for a unit is available in that unit.
It happens in form only. For this reason each unit becomes natural for each other. Thus
Mutual complementarity proves itself. Complementarity Mutual nature Exchanges taking place in a state of motion


<newpage>

32 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

(Environment) is from. Naturalness (reciprocity) is the state of being in natural motion. Thus the root-
Conscious nature being mutually natural and environment in itself is proven to be a continuous process.
It is a symbol of coexistence itself.

“Vibrational motion and circular motion are present in every unit.”

If we look at the sequence of evolution in the atom, it becomes clear that as the atom evolves, it also
The vibrational speed increases. This explains its stability. In this order
Formation is complete. As soon as conformation is complete, vibrational motion, circular motion occurs in that atom.
Expectations for speed become higher. This is the history of motion which itself makes it clear that
The immortality of the result explains the stability and continuity of life. Thus
We come to the conclusion that stability must maintain the continuity of the unit as a whole.
Being an essential condition, the importance of vibratory motion in the history of evolution is in itself
It becomes clear. In this sequence, only reflection takes place in inanimate nature, reflection takes place in conscious nature and
Reversion happens in both ways.

The process of reflection and reversion can be clearly seen in conscious nature, especially in human beings of enlightened state.
Meet. Even though there is a possibility of manifestation of all five powers in human consciousness, consciousness has to be
In order to recognize and survive, it is found to be constantly dynamic. This is the solution to this
Solution is an expected fact in retroactive reflection. This happens in every person experimentally, practically.
And it is proved empirically only when there is harmony in recognizing and performing it. This only
There is a form of solution and it has continuity.

“Labor is an inseparable dimension of human life.” Labor itself is equal to force, labor in the sense of rest

It is only there.

There is strength in every unit in every situation and condition. In order to develop this strength and prosperity
It is found in the form of conduct. As a result, there is development and its continuity. Strength itself is always
And due to being stable, it became natural for it to be indivisible in force, position and power in motion. so every
Form, qualities, nature, religion exist in an indivisible form in a unit. Religion in each unit of labor (force)


<newpage>

critical materialism 33

And as to nature; Motion as nature and quality and as a result and present with immortality.

Is.

The basic force in the unit is the magnetic force. This is a sign of being drenched in power. force in every vein of the unit
Due to prosperity, the continuity of labor automatically became clear. This explains that
Every unit is laborious in every situation. Labor always means rest. of rest
Bhasabhasa occurs in the natural motion of the unit. As nature and environment give the unit its own nature
kept on interfering in being in motion, in the same way, due to the interference of the unit environment and nature or
The ability to be free from the influence of interference. The need to acquire qualifications and eligibility. Nature
Proved. Because no one is destroyed in existence, hence the nature comes into motion and evolves.
It is only there. In this way, continuous striving for labor and rest is present in an indivisible form in existence.
This shows that the use of force, i.e. labour, is necessary till the period of solution. Because
We have to bear the pressure of environment and nature or we have to acquire the capacity to bear it. ultimately
It has to develop as per the natural pace, it has to be formed. Both labor and motion are different from completeness.
Being inexhaustible, the richness of inexhaustible power becomes a natural state in the living entity. This way
Reflection and reversion of consciousness is accomplished in a human being of the state of knowledge due to the endowment of inexhaustible power.
It is a natural state of being. To recognize and survive in the same reflection and reversion sequence.
In harmony, in the state of accepting what is known and knowing what is believed, every human being becomes satisfied.
And the possibility of its continuation emerging is clear.

The strength of every unit is the reason for the basic effort. Because the introduction of force without power, without force
Without power there is no introduction. Thus the introduction of energy without the original effort and without energy
There is no original effort. Due to every unit being constantly active with interaction in reciprocity, the roots of action
In absolute energy, equilibrium is automatically achieved. The reason for this is that there is no equilibrium energy.
There is no place. At the same time, the entire nature is immersed in harmonious energy. Therefore in such equilibrium energy
Prosperity itself, strength itself, strength itself, basic effort, basic effort itself, action, action itself, labour-speed-
The result, the labor movement, the result is development itself and its continuity. In this sequence, each stage
There is a system for the units to identify each other.


<newpage>

34 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In the elemental action in the state of matter, definite distances of atomic fragments from each other identify their mutual interaction.
Publishes. Besides, the organization of physical and chemical objects also depends on the interconnected molecules.
It proves to be an indicator of identity. Chemical molecular structures in life, of living cells
Symbolic of identity. These seed trees grow regularly. Inanimate-conscious-nature in living state
This is an early publication, based on the hereditary principle of anatomy being of a nature nature.
remains based. Also, life awareness remains influenced in the form of practice in the living state. practice
Meaning of birth passing through the process of accepting traditional activities and settings right from pregnancy itself.
What follows is the process of imitating it. Like cow's offspring doing cow-like activities
It can be seen that it has happened. Similarly, it is evident in all species of living beings. Human beings in the state of knowledge, matter-consciousness
Being a joint publication of human body is also mainly hereditary. as well as awareness-raising
It happens. The evidence of this is the education system and traditions themselves. This proved that human culture
Performs system identification operations.

Consciousness of life includes inexhaustible forces like mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul and hope, thought, desire, rhythm.
And inexhaustible powers like Pramana are working and shining. Akshay working continuously in human consciousness
Powers become evident in reflection and reversion. Like identification of hope power and selection in reflection
And in return it is in the form of taste. Introduction to the power of instinct, analysis in reflection, reversion
In the form of comparison. Identification of willpower Reflection in reflection as illustration in reflection
Are in the form of. Intellectual power is identified in the form of resolution in reflection and in the form of understanding in retroversion.
Is in. Soul power is in the form of authenticity in reflection and experience in return.

In the sense of recognizing and maintaining the reflection and reversion of the powers i.e. the living powers.
Proves to be worthwhile. Reflection and reversion of the five inexhaustible powers is a continuous process of life.
Due to this, this action itself is known as life consciousness. In this sequence, our consciousness
Identifies form and qualities in reflection. Subsists in reversion. This makes it clear
That the entire physical and chemical world becomes visible to the senses in the process of reflection.
Is. Whereas value and existence or nature and religion can be recognized only in retrospect. As a result it
The system of subsistence is automatically expedient. This means that the physical world


<newpage>

critical materialism 35

Subsistence and identification of the intellectual world is through a balanced method of cognition and sensitivity.
The situation of recognition and subsistence is meaningful in the sense of solution.

There is complete study of existence in, from, for, because existence is ever present in its totality. Existence
Neither decreases nor increases. That is why human beings are bound to study in order to exist. Because
This study is indispensable in order to present to humans the evidence of their awakening in life. As a result:
Had to look forward to the situation of authenticity, proof and solution. In the same sequence, Nirbhamta
is an expression. It also has communication capabilities. This is the dignity of human tradition and social integrity.
There is a formula. This explains the nature of harmony between the education system and character. this is the experience
Coexistence is essential for thinking and the art of living.

Coexistence is existence. Development sequence in coexistence, life event and term in development, life event
And in the order of awakening in verse, and in the order of reflection and reversion in life awakening, in the order of reflection and reversion
Experience in existence, experience in existence, situation truth, objective truth and objective truth in order of human being.
There is a provision for the production of. This is the regular system. Thoughts in order to express the force of experience
Style and art of living is communicated in itself. This life is the witness of splendor and awakening.
Human values ​​are expressed, communicated and evaluated only with awareness. the art of living this glory
It is published as the best and the best.

The nature of the art of living, the nature of life awakening and its glory, recognizing one's own relationships and values.
It is only there. The nature of its dignity is evident in its fulfillment. These are the entire dimensions of the human race,
Life is movement in the form of solutions and authenticity in angles, perspectives and directions. situation truth
In the form of nature immersed in being, objective truth itself in the form of direction, time, space and objective truth form,
The system of recognizing and following virtues, nature and religion becomes perfect in humans through awakening.
Form, qualities, nature, religion are indivisible present in every entity. of mutual units or mutual poles
The direction and country become clear only on the basis. Also the duration of the action is counted. of object
Identifying shape, volume, cube, identifying properties as even, odd, intermediate powers,
Nature is identified as the harmony of powers. Religion is characterized by survival, affirmation, hope and
It is evident in the form of joy.


<newpage>

36 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Forgetting any dimension of existence and entity would itself be indicative of ignorance. ignorance
It itself represents problems and tribulations. Every human accepts awakening. awakening reflection
And it is a successful form of reversion. That is, it is the form of solution and authenticity. such harmony
And it is not perfect within the limits of qualities. That is why every human being has to understand the form, qualities, nature, religion
There is a need to know, believe, recognize and live in an indivisible form.

In this sequence, man has been developing the process of recognizing and subsisting in existence. Now!
Many points remain to be identified and fulfilled. As a result, existence is complete and existence is complete.
The need to recognize development and the situation became expedient. Thus existence is holistic and complete
The unit is always auspicious and successful. Auspiciousness and success means all-round solution and authenticity.
Is. This occasion or such a sacred occasion remains suitable for every human being, because which was
No, that doesn't happen.

Even in the awakening process, every human being communicates and expresses his capabilities, abilities and worthiness. This only
It also implies luminosity. Every unit is luminous. luminance self reflection-
Being an imaging process and system, it remains present in the situation of every unit. Because
There is no entity in existence that does not exist. Being an indivisible unit in human existence
The reason for this is their current situation. Human beings have lost their dignity, glory and grandeur through tradition.
In order to maintain the source, awareness and inspiration remain appropriate.

Therefore, it is necessary to consciously recognize sociality in humans and to give form to humanity.
Inevitability is constantly present. Therefore, illuminating human coexistence is the only solution.
Materialism, behavioral democracy and experiential spiritualism are simple formulas and forms of explanation.
Its constant source is the mediatory power, mediatory action and mediatory life, the spontaneous glory, which itself is the mediator.
It is the form of philosophy. Only through this, Abhyudaya (all-round development) makes study accessible, behavior accessible and experience
The entire fact of being accessible is presented before you.

Bhoomi: Swargatam Yaatu, Manusho Yaatu Devatam.
Gharmo successam yaatu, nityam yaatu shubhodayam.


<newpage>

critical materialism

evolution of atom into existence

divine position
discharge from office

, Infection
infection infection

infection infection

human position
That

get confused
,

survival mode

, Infection
infection infection

vital force

vital state

Ha
Prana Har.
|

state of matter


<newpage>

38 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter 5

evolution of atom into existence

Human beings want to act, behave, think and experience in their very existence. in existence, of existence
There is no basis for additional understanding, thinking, behavior or experience, because existence
All imaginations more or less than this are illusions.

Illusion means appearing to be true but not being true. existence in existence i.e. in formless existence
Is Samprakta Prakriti (Formal Existence). Therefore the entire object to study is existence itself.

Identification of amorphous existence:-

The formless existence itself is glorious in the form of absolute energy. This motion, wave, pressure-free routine
Is in present condition. At the same time, it is present in the same form, perceptible and perceptible at all times. This 
In reality formless existence is eternal in the sense of original energy, ultimate energy or absolute energy.
Is present. This is absolute power. It is found to be in the midst of each one's mutuality.

“Power is positional. The nature imbued in power is situational.” The truth of power being conditional is its
It is proved comprehensively because no place and time can be proved that does not have formless existence.

Nature is a collection of infinite units imbued with power. Unit means a body of matter limited on six sides.
Is from. The basic unit of nature is the atom because growth and decay are proven only in the atom. atoms
is found to exist with a definite path of motion. On all sides of such motion paths and atomic fragments
Amorphous existence is visible. This makes it clear that in the non-form existence there is complete form.
Existence is rich and energetic. Evidence of energetics in each unit lies in the former form of the atom and
This is evident from the reactivity of the atom in its form.

Identification of morphological existence:-

Nature is a collection of infinite units. The basic unit of nature is the atom. each unit has its own atomic
The state is alert along with the system, because it has energy due to being saturated with power. in nature


<newpage>

critical materialism 39

There is no unit or part which is not energy rich. For this reason every unit is active. it
Every unit of action is visible in the form of labour, motion and result.

unity + energy richness - activity
Inert unit refers to the luminance + reflectance of a material body limited from six sides.

There is never a separation between unity and energy prosperity. To see action continuously due to this truth
Is available. Therefore, due to the nature inherent in the being being naturally inherent in the being, the being is
Continuously strive for development through experience. Because the power position is complete. Nature is contained in the whole.
That is why existence proved to be easy to strive for perfection.

Activity itself is countable in the form of even, odd and intermediate powers. even and odd powers
Reciprocity is seen as charge. Making it normal is the work of the mediator. this we
Known as hidden energy. In this way it is proved that even and odd powers work energy.
The mediating force is ever present in nature in the form of latent energy.

Nature, speed, prestige is the completeness of the unit and continuity of the unit. maximize charge speed
The basis of science today is to make a system perform a voluntary action by charging it. Such
The mentality of being based on events i.e. passions came about because of the mediating action and its glory.
Has not been identified till date. Relativity is proved only in positive and negative charges. this and more
Less also means. Both more and less are not complete and hence are not stable. As a result:
The mediating power continues to work to normalize the positive and negative charges (forces).
Because the goal of the mediating power (action) is perfection. The proof of this is its completeness and its continuity. This 
The reason is that the arrangement or destiny order of each unit (atom) is clear only in the order of its present completion.
This is the revelation of evolution and development in existence.

“Evolution happens in atoms.”

Every atom is atomic by composition. Each formation has more than one fraction. each atom
is a unit with its own path. Such a trajectory itself explains the formation and shape of the motion. Everyone
Substitution and displacement keep happening in the atom until completeness is achieved because each
Being an atom in the form of action, labor, movement and result are indivisible present in every action. Result


<newpage>

40 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

In the sense of immortality, in the sense of rest from labour, in the sense of destination of movement, development itself is the goal.
This goal is evident in the form of development and growth.

Like each atom being charged in its negative positive state and due to the hidden energy in the nucleus.
Normalizing those passions has been seen as a continuous act. physical-chemical atoms themselves
Being charged in negative-positive state means increasing or decreasing the distance from the center of the surrounding particles.
The situation is called, in both such situations, the energy hidden in the meridian is transmitted to the ambient particles at a certain distance.
Keeps it on. Which is called normalizing the charges. This indicates that the passion
The free state itself counts as natural movement. Only in such a state of nature, every
The possibility of development lies in the atom.

From this example it can be understood that when any object undergoes elemental change (contained in the atom
change in the number of atomic fragments) then in that case we will see that
It is found that the atom in which displacement occurs remains in its natural motion and the atom from which
Displacement occurs and the charge remains in motion. The reason for the atomic charges being in motion lies in it.
There is indigestion of number of fractions. The undigested atom itself becomes naturally in motion by expelling its parts.
Is. Development implies impermanence. Dual results to the point of inconsequentiality, quick
The atoms are seen in the positions of the result, the long result. This is the elemental state and knowledge. This
Type: Sum of atoms formed from more than one atomic fraction i.e. at least two fractions in an atom.
Starting from the beginning, it has been proven that atoms are made up of many parts. order in nature spontaneous origin
Being a unit atom, indivisible current of quantity, force and power is found in the atom.

Is.

The arrangement of the atom in its initial state (atomic part) is not proven. At least for the system to be certified
It is necessary to have at least two atomic fractions because there is order in coexistence. As soon as more than one
When atoms come together they get the name of molecule. They are distinguished on the basis of their own caste and foreign caste. alien
The molecules that exist from the combination of atoms are known in chemical form. such chemical
There are different species of molecules. Chemical molecules of different species combine to form different structures.
And are published in the form of Rasa, Uparas etc. Just as a plant begins as a seedling
It exists, grows and one day gets created. By looking at it properly it becomes clear that germination


<newpage>

critical materialism 4

There is no consistency in its quantity since the time of its growth. With this the birth of a person
If we look at it, it becomes clear that from the moment the body takes form in the womb, its growth begins.
It starts. This in itself indicates instability in the sense of quantity. when the baby comes out of the womb
Yes, from that very moment a sequence of changes can be seen in it. This change occurs in infancy, adolescence, virginity, youth,
There are many in mature and old age.

From this it becomes clear that the compositions are not stable. It is clear from this that the compositions are chemical and physical.
Is borderline. Although the symbolism of development is definitely visible in the writings, yet the developing
And development happens only in atoms. That is why development is not proven in creation. volume stability
Being is evolution. The proof of this is life (conscious entity) in existence. The works are in development. Development
There is a possibility of substitution and displacement in the sequence. The part which naturally remains in motion in an atom,
Is proposed in it. As a result, loss is calculated in that in which there is displacement and in that in which
Propagation takes place, it develops or becomes prosperous. In this sequence, the formation of atoms
All the parts that need to be added or have the possibility to be added to it, until it is complete, replacement will be done in it.
The possibility of displacement also remains. Thus it is proved that the meaning of completeness
In every atom displacement and displacement are inevitable. This is the significance of the evolution of physical-
As obvious as the chemical splendor. Inconsequentiality is proved when completeness is achieved. This only
Implies immortality of the result (form). This was the first success in the interrelationship sequence of atomic development.
Is. In this situation, no particle in this atom can be replaced or displaced by any process.
Finds. Due to this truthfulness that atom becomes endowed with inexhaustible power. This is Chaitanya Pada or Chaitanya Prakriti
Is. In this way, it becomes clear in itself that till the completeness of formation, there is inanimate nature and completeness of formation.
The form of eternally conscious nature becomes glorious.

“Nature, united in being, is a collection of infinite units.” The basic unit of nature is known as atom.
She goes. Because the arrangement is clear in the atom, the basic unit of inanimate nature.

Environment and nature being inseparable for every unit, inanimate and animate cells.
Is prone to change. Looking at the history of living cells shows that originally in the past

A chemical molecule that has come as a complement to the environment and nature has come into existence as a living cell.
Being incarnated in, again dividing itself into two parts and then both together becoming like them and


<newpage>

42 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The process of creating cells was published in the form of compositions. reality looking at it
It is understood that despite being essentially the same cell of the same species, for this one cell
Proved to be compatible with environment and nature.

There is evidence of life cells of the same species in the core of the seed. living cell and non-living
Looking at the cells shows that respiration does not occur in non-living cells whereas
Respiration takes place in living cells. It is on the basis of this respiratory process that living cells are formed.
The composition is recognized. The same chemical that was seen in life cells, despite being similar in both
Respiration is not found in non-life. In this way, living cells and non-living cells
Creation and action themselves are found to exist in their original form. Its three main factors are proved
Happens. First - those molecules, which function as life cells, whose basic substance form (chemical
Formation), second - environment and third - naturalness. Naturalness means the method by which the unit
But there is pressure from him. Atmosphere refers to the pressure exerted on the unit. Thus all three factors
The essence is self-explanatory. In the order of seed inheritance, creations (trees) are divided based on seeds and creations (trees) are
Seeds are believed to be identified on the basis of. If we pay attention to the seeds, we will find that
In its Stushi (original form of the seedling) the form of the entire structure (tree) should be in a form bound by rules and consistency.
is found. Being rule bound means that one has the ability to follow the previous sequence.
Happen. Sangati Baddha means the ability to get inclined to germination after attaining a yogic combination. due to this fact
Every seed has the capacity to be created after finding favorable soil and environment. in this sequence
Many seeds and creations are seen on earth. This makes it clear that first of all a cell
Transformed into many cells, they belong to the same species. Again based on different parameters
That is, in accordance with the research tendencies, environment and natural pressure found in the Prana Sutra, there are many
All kinds of creations and seeds prospered on earth in this present time.

“Creation is not complete development” because “that from which it is made is not more than that.” perfect nature
The physical, chemical, molecular and vital composition of cells is famous. joint of these cells
The same qualities are present in the creation also. Like the smallest and the biggest creation made of iron
It is neither less nor more than iron. More-less means their “tva” (like iron in iron).
Are. Similarly, tree nature, iron nature, humanity etc. “Tva” means the originality of the entity. originality


<newpage>

critical materialism 43

There are nature. In each unit, as said earlier – cow, horse etc. their nature should be minimized.
In order to keep those structures stable throughout the body's life, heredity became clear.
It is a unique situation that all the creations (conditions) on this earth except human beings are
By looking at the material state, vital state and living state, it becomes clear that as long as the iron remains,
Till now there is no contrast in his nature i.e. in his iron nature. Similarly in mango, tiger, bear, cow etc.
There is no diversity. Whereas if we look at humans, we find that it is the opposite i.e. the opposite of humanity.
Maximum number of persons in the position is published. It means that humans are the only unit on this earth which
Claims to be superior and developed even while performing actions and behavior contrary to humanity.
Is. Like a person, family, society or nation capable of maximum exploitation and war is considered developed.
Used to be. From this it becomes clear that man got lost in the wilderness of finding his essence in heredity.
Is it there or is it getting ready to disappear? Human supremacy to be bright and exemplary in heredity
What would have happened if there was a system? Either according to those who are called supporters of heredity, the ancestors of human beings
Why did they become humans as they were monkeys? Why did you change? Either consider change as development. Similarly,
Why does the knowledge of the previous generation not reach the second generation without understanding and learning it? This is a thought for those sages
There is a point to be made.

The state of matter is seen with effectivity or as the seed of result because in matter there is
There is no qualitative change without quantitative change and whatever immediate change in the state of matter
Yes, all that clarifies the meaning of one or the other post. Each such post is a link in the sequence of development.
This link, visible in form, is itself evidence of development. In this way, any number of substances
There is a practical system of elemental form, it is stable and definite in itself. when that substance is alive
What happens is called development in language form. relatively i.e. life in comparison to material state
Due to reduction in the number of species of cells. Secondly, consequentiality becomes countable in seed-inheritance.
Are. After becoming glorious with its originality from the material state, the vital state again returns to the material state.
There is a provision for change.

For this reason, even though the vital state appears to be more developed than the material state, it is more developed than the material state.
Its stability and certainty decreases, whereas if infected development had taken place, it would have gone from the material state.
There should have been more stability and determination in the life stage, but this did not happen. but material state


<newpage>

Mediated philosophy Co-existentialism (existential human-centric thinking)

The diversity of vital states decreased as compared to . The manifestation of life and existence on earth
It has become the basis for the emergence of the state of knowledge. Creation in the state of life rather than organization and disintegration in the state of matter.
The speed is fast. The state of matter itself gets sublimated and appears in the form of life state. i.e. in nature
The purpose of manifestation of non-human nature is the manifestation of the state of knowledge. which unites life and body
Is in the form. Understanding this does not prevent humans from committing crimes on earth.

If we look at the living stage, there is less diversity in it than in the vital stage and it is also seen that
That the stability of heredity which has been there due to the pressure of nature and environment,
Let's change it. Like dog, cat, cow etc. animals come under the natural pressure of humans and adopt their hereditary
They start doing activities other than their normal ones, this shows that they are moving from life state to life state.
Instability or uncertainty of heredity increased and diversity decreased.

If we look at humans, we realize that there is almost no diversity in humans. But in these hereditary
Instability reached its peak. It is not necessary that a thief's son be a thief. the son of a scholar
Did not imitate wisdom, whereas the children of a fool are also scholars. It's surprising that humans
Still, he considers himself a claimant and pioneer of heredity. How pathetic is this? Gin
Many essays and treatises are being prepared every year on the basis of heredity. To what extent is this beneficial for humanity?

Is?

“Positions are counted only in the order of development.”

State of matter is a term in which the functional configuration of atoms and atoms of different species is described.
Which are seen to be calculated in physical and chemical form. This is the diversity of all substances.
At the core are facts. In complete substances, there is a combination of homogeneous dissimilar atoms. of such yoga
Basically, every atom contains within itself the power to meet or join each other.
The same fact is proved to be the reason behind the formation of such an atom. Formless Existence (Existence, Pervasive)
In this form, strength is expressed as a result of being full of existence. Existence itself form-
Due to the indivisible state of form, it is a proof that the entire formless existence,
Appears to be surrounded by formless existence. It surrounds the control of each unit itself.
Making it clear, because every unit i.e. molecule, atom and the parts contained in the atom are also mutually determined.


<newpage>

critical materialism 45

They remain controlled in distance, which is formless existence itself. That is, each unit in the state of control
It does not happen in anger, this is the nature of movement. The possibility of loss of charge is automatically expedient.
Are. This is evidence of passion.

Inanimate nature and living nature are present on this earth. Inert nature, material state, vital state, countable
Is. In the nature of consciousness, the state of being and the state of knowledge are considered. Atoms are identified in the state of matter. in
The state of the atoms themselves is an expression of evolution. In this sequence, atoms evolve and develop
Endowed with the ability to recognize atoms. Such atoms are in conscious state. this development
Is the glory of. In the same sequence, the living nature i.e. the fully formed atom has the five powers and the five
Forces remain contained in renewable form. For qualitative development till its awakening and full expression.
The conscious unit is active. Control is equally present for inanimate-conscious nature. of present
It means condition and effect including existence. Effect of formless existence as control
Being effective in each unit is the proof. Molecules combine with each other to form atoms and
Published as a composition.

After completeness, the atom is in its own motion which establishes a motion path in itself.
Whereas in an inert atom, the path of motion of the atomic fragments itself illuminates its formation till its formation is complete.
Is. The atom, along with the path of motion of the final particles after its completeness, reveals its immensity.
In order to establish a new path which is a cluster in itself. like the end of a rope
By setting fire to it and rotating it, an Alatchakra is visible, in the same space as the formed atom.
Makes its own motion cycle, it gets published in the form of a beam. Such a conscious unit i.e. completeness of formation
The obtained atom has the characteristics that it is endowed with inexhaustible force and inexhaustible power.

The meaning of inexhaustible power and strength is that after completeness of formation, immortality is proved in the atom.
As a result, both labor and speed become inexhaustible. This is the natural situation. in this very truth
All the five forces manifested in the constituted atom prove to be inexhaustible. meaning of inexhaustibility
That is - not decaying, being intact.

This inexhaustibility is evidenced in the activities of conscious nature. If we look at hope and thoughts

No matter how many hopes and ideas are used, they do not decrease in any way. opposite of this
It is seen that while using hope and ideas in the form of estimation and planning,


<newpage>

46 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Their intensity and superiority keeps coming to light. When hope chooses something i.e. in
Recognizes palatability, then gets involved in selection process. As long as palatability is expected
The act of selection is not certified unless it is recognized. No matter how far and near the hopes are
Remains active till. Till then all the activities are clear only on the basis of recognizing the taste. From this
It is concluded that the identity of taste which could not be revealed in the inanimate nature was not manifested in the form of consciousness.
First published in Nature. Chaitanya – manifesting itself in nature as morale, hope power
Do it. They are acts of selection and taste. morale, conscious nature of life or conscious entity
There is an indivisible present. The five forces and the five powers cannot be seen separately from the conscious entity.
Can. Similarly, five indivisible forces are present in inanimate nature and atoms also.

The second force of the conscious nature i.e. the conscious unit is the instinct force. Its powers are in the form of thought and comparison.
Is effective in. The third force is the power of mind - the power of will whose strength and powers are related to thinking and
It is effective as an illustration. The fourth force is the intellect whose strength and powers are based on understanding and determination.
Are effective as. The fifth force is self-confidence whose strength and powers are based on experience and authenticity.
And in practice there are solutions.

Self-confidence is naturally the splendor of experience. Experience itself is called power in expression i.e. soul power.
Is. Self-confidence is identified only in authenticity. Authenticity is the awakening of the conscious entity and
There is evidence of satisfaction. The goal of development is to realize the nature in power. Feeling
He himself is the embodiment of awakening. There is a system of identification and survival only through awareness. Identity and subsistence
This is authenticity, this is the expression of feeling.

Every atom has vibrational motion. The proof of this is contraction-expansion in molecules and molecular bodies.
Is visible as. Without external pressure, contraction or expansion of molecules in the state of matter cannot be proven.
Whereas contraction, expansion and vibration occur naturally in every vital cell of the vital state.
is found. This vibration of molecules is a clear identity of the vital state.

From the state of matter to the state of life, there seems to be a development in the sense of creation. as long as it remains in that state
By then its purpose is also accomplished, like creations as big as each cell of the vital state.
It exists, it exists in its image. It means that the cell that exists in the structure is responsible for that structure.
Is a microscopic form of the entire shape of. Looking at it this way, it becomes clear that the structure of each cell


<newpage>

critical materialism 47

Each of its cells is participating in the process and carries out the activities taking place at the same place.
This is evidence that cells are a representation of the entire form of creation.

When the stem cell changes from the material state to the living state, it is seen that
The cell of the material state which is to be transformed into the life state is flooded with the addition of chemical water.
Lives. In such a flood situation, the sum of the pressure of any one heat and the effect of naturalness
Vibration starts in it. This method is again in the process of formation of cells from cells.
Are also visible. From this it becomes clear that at the time of vibration the sacred chemical water,
Every living cell is affected by the combination of pressure of certain chemical molecules, environment and nature (heat).
It was proved that it is formed i.e. it gets transformed into vibration.

Cells in their structure, in their respective places, performing their specific activities by staying in their respective places.
Do it. This means that the life cell working in the root of a plant is dependent on the location of that place.
Works accordingly. Cells located in leaves, stem and flowers have specific functions at those places.
Are found doing it. In this way, life cells, despite being basically of the same species, are of that composition.
She remains dedicated to her work in the glory of coordination. There is nothing special about them in themselves
Would. Merely not being vegetative does not prove their stability, because at every moment a plant has several
Cells die and to compensate for this damage, more similar cells are formed for sensing.
it occurs . In this sequence, the creations of the entire life continue to be edited. harmony of their mutuality
And harmony is their vibration. This vibration is the system to stay connected with each other's work.
It is this contraction-expansion that works as wave and pressure and maintains order with each other.
In this entire process, there is pressure in the case of contraction in the vital cell, and waves in the case of expansion.
Remains effective as. Due to this truth, the unit of the entire life state was proved to be an electroreceptor.

quantity and its form

Quantity is the indivisible present of form, quality, nature and religion. There is no entity that has form, properties,
There should be no nature or religion. The basic form of quantity is assessed in the atom itself because the atom itself is the elemental form.
In existence, participation in the system and the overall system is evident along with certain conduct. its predecessor
And in the para-form the instability of the quantity increases as compared to the elemental (atom). The principle is that


<newpage>

48 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In elemental form, the amount of time that an atom can remain in its state is the length of time that it remains in the molecule.
Or the atom is unable to remain in its previous form. The state of matter in nature as atomic fragments
Are in negligible form. Any substance is found only in the form of composition of maximum number of atoms and molecules.
Is . Of these, the study of quantum states that the atom in its form is endowed with even-odd-intermediate forces.
There is a destiny sequence. The entire force is seen occurring in the atom itself. on-form
That is, intermediate force is not visible in molecules or bodies composed of molecules. For this reason in the atom itself
Study and teaching of the five forces have become easier.

The mediating action itself is in the form of mediating force and power. Its position is in the center of the atom.
Are there. It continuously controls the even and odd powers. conscious nature and matter
This fundamental difference is found in nature that in inanimate nature there are atoms, molecules and bodies composed of molecules.
Whereas conscious nature remains present only in the form of atoms. Consciousness in the atom
Being inexhaustible powers, every unit within itself has a continuous manifestation of life, grandeur and glory.
Does it. Inanimate powers are perishable and living powers are inexhaustible. Due to this fact Chaitanya
Reflection and reversion occur naturally in the unit.

inanimate powers animate powers
Five forces in Akshaya Shakti Akshaya Shakti
4. Electromagnetic force mind hope
2. Gravitational force instinct idea
3. General (weak) interference visualization
4. Strong interference intelligence.
5. Mediator Force Soul Feeling



<newpage>

critical materialism 49

In accordance with the intermediary action, the nature of motion is found in each unit. as a result in
The possibility of advance development and participation in development becomes accessible.

Energy is introduced into every atom due to its form, qualities, nature and religion. energy
Forces can be introduced only when work is in the form of energy. More than one for such situation
Interdependence of units proves to be essential. The atom is found functioning in its position.
Introduction to the force inherent in an atom is the action taking place under it in its own state.
is an expression. For each unit there is an environment of someone and for each unit there is an environment of another.
Keeping in mind the truth of eternal existence, there is a system to get acquainted with mutual forces. In this order
There is participation in the development system and development process. Quantitative change in atom till completeness of formation
At the same time, that is, with the change in the number of fractions, changes in their properties are seen.

In this way, it was proved that the calculation of quantities is basically done in atoms and the quantities made up of molecules and molecules.
Due to the events happening on the basis of these atoms, atoms are understood to be the basic quantity and remain in existence.
By just taking the quantity, the formula for understanding the entire body in terms of quantity emerges in itself. atom
The four dimensions of the bodies composed of are found to be manifested in the following manner:-

, Form in the sense of size, volume, cube.
2. Qualities (powers) in the sense of even, odd, mediator.
3. Nature (originality) in the form of composition, tradition of composition, composition.
4. Nature - () In the state of existence - organization-disintegration
(॥) In vital state - essence-antidote
(॥) In the state of life - cruel-cruel
(5) In the state of knowledge - patience, bravery, generosity, kindness, grace, compassion.
5. Existence, affirmation, hope and realization (happiness, peace, contentment, bliss) are religion in the simplest sense.

In this way, inanimate nature is understood through form and properties, mathematics and qualities. nature and religious existence
In this we understand through qualities and causes. Religion always remains glorious in its existence. Astu, in existence
The language of mathematics alone did not prove to be sufficient for understanding quantity because “mathematics is more than the eyes.”


<newpage>

50 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

And it is less than understanding.” That is why conscious nature cannot be explained through mathematical language. That's why
We are also obliged to learn the language of properties and causality.

Properties are seen to exist mutually in the form of events. isotropy effect in inanimate nature
falls into mutual units and mediates in order to normalize its own isotropic charges.
The power is seen to be at work. Increase in work energy is odd-even charge. This charge is called normal.
The hidden energy remains effective for creating, while the conscious energy remains effective for solution and authenticity.
In this form the mediation process is effective. Solution and authenticity are accepted as human tradition
Is. This shows that in the conscious nature itself, there is a system of fully effective tradition of intermediary action.
Is. That is why development takes place.

There is a system of understanding nature and religion through cause-effect and cause-effect method. disposition each unit
That is, it exists in the form of values ​​in the inanimate-animate unit. The price is constant in each unit. Religion
Are indivisible. For this reason, humans have a system of understanding. all for the origin of an event
Qualitative language became clear by clarifying the essential dense factor elements, such as: -

Disorder – Pain – Problem – Qualitative Language.

Understanding the factors causing chaos – Study of the phenomenon

Cause of the problem – causal language.

Similarly,

Understanding of system - happiness - solution - qualitative language.

Understanding the factors of the system - Elements of the event - Regularity - Factors of solution 8
Causal language.

With this testimony the intention of development becomes clear.

Solutions are the basis of potential. The solution to each development link is published in its own right.
Are there. Due to this solution being a daily tradition and life and soul, it becomes clear that the solution
There is glory of development and its continuity in the post itself. In this way the mediation process itself becomes practical.
Being effective daily as a solution makes the meaning of the situation clear. anomalous charge
It is a constant revelation of the problem. When we understand this fact, it becomes clear beyond doubt.
That in the entire state of nature, the movement of nature remains in the Pratishtha only, which is under the discipline of the intermediary verb “soul”.


<newpage>

Critical Materialism 5]

It is an action that is going to happen. This discipline has experience as the mediating action force, authenticity as power.
it occurs. This is the splendor in the expression of conscious action. authenticity of every conscious action
There is a possibility of getting published. The effort is to make those possibilities accessible to all, easily accessible.
Means. Authenticity is a thing to be exchanged through education or enlightenment. Chaitanya
It is found in nature itself that there is a constant thirst for solution and there is constant satisfaction with the solution. Solution
And it is only in the sense of its continuity that the entire substance and relationship can be sustained. solution is life
Being the source of satisfaction, the tradition of conscious nature lies in the tradition of solution and authenticity.
Or there is a system to satisfy the entire conscious nature. Come to the conclusion that consciousness is present in nature.
Acceptance of the joint communication of exchanging, recognizing and living is called understanding.
Are known. This is called Hridayangam and such realization is the concept.

Harmony (authenticity and resolution) of the inexhaustible forces and powers found in the entities of consciousness.
There is a timeless harmony in the interconnectedness of oneself and the interconnected units. such harmony is universal
In this, a system of authenticity and resolution is appropriate in us humans. This entire research,
Education is an inexhaustible source of system, character and its continuity. Quantitative Sciences, Physics, Chemistry
This is the authenticity and solution at the core of science, psychology, systems science and behavioral science.
The only inexhaustible source is Akshay Traan and Akshay Praan.

Education and culture are the only source of understanding and concept. To give meaningful form to such source,
To maintain the continuity of authenticity and solution in the conscious nature, of the unit of the state of knowledge.
There is responsibility and glory. In inanimate nature there is exchange of particles. in the level of atoms in which
When displacement occurs, it is already in normal motion, after which displacement occurs, it
is also found to be in normal motion. Force involved in continuous mediating action to be in normal motion
Remains what we call hidden energy.

Mediating power is active only in the sense of self-control. Every inanimate and conscious being under control
The unit remains safe. That is, its existence remains the same. control in conscious nature
It is seen in the sense of solution and its continuity. In this point, materialism, intellectuality and
The indivisible splendor of spirituality is visible because the atom of consciousness is awakened only through experience.
Is. As a result, the solution becomes inspiring, stimulating and enlightening. As a result of this, enlightenedly,


<newpage>

52 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Pointing out to others in the form of understanding is also seen in practice. That is why only matter is responsible for certain development.
Being awakened in the position, controlling the “self” through intermediary action and having a certain distance between each other in the intermediary entity.
The truth of being preserved in form is self-evident. The mediating force in the conscious unit is the soul itself.
And the mediating power is experience and authenticity. Realization in the state of life awakening, inseparable from life
Achievement is achieved and spirituality i.e. the feeling of being immersed in formless existence is mutually
This is evident in the form of good distance and knowledge i.e. consciousness. Thus intellectual, physical and
Spirituality is an indivisible present.

The power of experience that manifests itself through controlled sensations in awakened life consciousness, that is, in cognitive awareness.
In conscious thinking style, thinking style is reflected as the art of living. The five Akshayas in consciousness
Forces and powers are continuously at work. By the mere illumination of consciousness through the body, the body becomes
There is no life. Consciousness is expressed in every human being. recognizing and sustaining consciousness
Is reflected as. In the process of recognizing and living, in the process of awakening i.e. existence
And recognizing development is the basic need. Awakening is the ultimate state of development. in atoms
There are arrangements for development. Awakening means experiencing existence. nature in power
To be realized in power is the purpose of existence. Only by understanding this can the journey of development be understood.
Come in. The more you are confused about existence, the more you will be confused about the goal. to this
Looking at it in another way, fearlessness in existence is the basis of being fearless towards the goal. Thus
The purpose of wisdom and science is to become fearless regarding existence, goals and development. in this order
It becomes clear that the nature which is infused into power is bound to develop until it is realized in power.
Being is the “existential truth”. This is the goal of inanimate-conscious nature itself. from state of matter
The vital state developed without Digdharam. In the process of becoming free from illusion from the state of existence to the state of knowledge, human beings
Finds himself confused. The whole reason for this is to consider the body as life, an inexhaustible force and inexhaustible force.
Being endowed with power, every human being is equal in terms of life potential. This equality is at every level
Until there is coordination, it seems contradictory because it is aimless, then opposition of opposition and
Gets involved in repressive activities of protest. Whereas the victory of opposition is the witness of awakening.
The entire contradiction is the result of mere existence, evolution into existence and the forgetting of life.


<newpage>

critical materialism 53

It is because of forgetting life or forgetting the knowledge of life or remaining unknown that the body is considered as life.
There is a compulsion. Only then are we forced to think that the actions taking place in the body are the gold of life.
(Sleep) Let's accept it. Whereas this does not happen. This is evidence that any inert-conscious atom
It is not inactive, that is, it remains continuously active.

Conscious action, knowing the inability of the body, the inexhaustibility of inspiration to make it run and run is proved by nature.
As it happens, the body does only as much work as it needs to do or as much work as the body is capable of doing.
In this way the falling asleep of the body does not mean the falling asleep of life. Diet, sleep etc. activities for the body
Its purpose is accomplished. Value and evaluation prove to be the practical purpose of life.
Just subsistence of the body is not life satisfaction. Arrangements for the subsistence of the body can be made only by the grace of life and the intellect.
Hence, we come to the conclusion that body is not life, life is not body. life is eternal, life
For the body is an instrument and a medium.

The splendor of consciousness shines in life. All the positions seen in the sequence of development
Like - Prana Pad, Bhranti Pad, Dev Pad and Divya Pad - the inanimate-conscious nature is active in these posts.
In these, life remains expressed either in the form of consciousness or in the form of action. life of an atom
Due to being constituted in form, its splendor is not similar to that of the constituent atoms. In reality,
We come to the conclusion that due to existence being stable, the inanimate atom itself evolves into the state of consciousness.
It gets infected in a cell which due to any reason does not transform back into an inert atom. This conscious atom,
Inexhaustible force: Being endowed with inexhaustible power, its inexhaustibility can only be achieved through qualitative development and awakening.
It proves its own indestructibility through experience in existence. The evolution of the atom into existence
And awakening is its certainty.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

54

Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

five humans in enlightenment
, Human | , Desire subject view Proof
of chaos
humility, diet, sleep,
Animal Human Dearness, Interest, Benefit Publication
Inferiority, cruelty, fear, sex
- confused human
of chaos
Cruelty, diet, sleep,
Monster Human Dear, Interest, Benefit Publication
Inferiority, humility, fear, sex
- confused human
system, education
financing, in
patience, bravery, justice in conduct
Yes Putreshana,
Generosity Solution, Truth | Harmony 8
with focus
tendency towards self rule
loyalty to swaraj
Kindness, patience, Including Lokeshna. Justice and Dharma in Patta
God in freedom
Bravery, generosity Gratitude oriented, true
Trend
free life and
Kindness, grace, complete awakening. Satya Pradhan, Dharma Swaraj and
divine human
compassion benevolence and justice freedom
- Nirbhat Manav



<newpage>

critical materialism

Prakriti Sahaj Four States (Mutual Complementary)

55

subsidiary
, Tomorrow. J verb Glow. religion is
(Trend)
soil, stone, organization- quantitative
state of matter creation-disconstruction existence
gem, metal dissolution tendency
plants, plants and seeds including existence
Pranavastha Respiration-Prashanasana anti-spasmodic seeds
Creeper, Gulm Confirmation
existence, confirmation hereditary
bash centered inheritance
living condition Animals and birds Geneacentric | cruel-cruel tendency to live with
Q
Hope
rationality related
Focused on patience, bravery, existence, confirmation, existence
focused diet, (sensitivity
The state of knowledge is man's generosity, kindness, hope to live
according to travel, work
Grace, compassion happiness including
behavioral tendency)



<newpage>

56 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

arrangement in existence - coexistence

Formative atom (root atom)
(Labor, motion, result in the atom due to being immersed, wet and surrounded in power)

Kam + Chakam (Composition-Composition Sequence) Chaitanya Prakriti (Development)
including-development order awakening order awakening
Molecule Kaj-++-+> State of Matter Formation Complete Atom (Evolution)
Atomic creation (recognizing, sustaining) + conscious nature
Immortality of The + Result
body > inexhaustible force endowed entity
molecular structure (body of matter) vital state + life
Ru (heat, water) vital state
Prana Kosha (recognition, subsistence *-
Trees & plants

,
animal-bird body coexistence

survival mode
(to recognize, to accept, to believe)

human body coexistence

wisdom in wisdom
(to recognize, to fulfill, to perform, to perform)
believe, know) + rest of labor
>humane conduct
(humanity)
> god human

human behavior
+> Perfection of conduct

+ speed destination

+ divine human


<newpage>

critical materialism 5

Chapter 6

coexistence complementarity and arrangement

In this chapter, there is coexistence instead of war, complementarity instead of exploitation, order instead of chaos.
And instead of accumulation, there is inspiration for prosperity.

“Solutionary materialism” makes physical-chemical objects accessible to study as a system.

Existence itself is the entire object of study. Chemical-physical splendor exists only in coexistence. Physical
Things exist in solid and rare form. Whereas chemical substances exist in solid, liquid and rare forms.
Is. At the root of physical activities is the atom as a base point. meaning of being nuclear based
This proves that by its very nature it is a system itself and a participant in the overall system.
The proof of the nature of atoms being in motion is that many atoms come together and are expressed in the form of molecules.
It is visible that many such molecules remain organized in the form of big and small bodies. Based on this fact this
The earth appears as a very large object. All this natural movement is the glory of spontaneous existence - this
Makes sense.

An atom is a system of coexistence of more than one part within itself. each atom has more than one fraction
It also presents the evidence of being a system itself, being a partner with the overall system.
The atom is a system in itself, with more than one part co-existing in this order.
The inevitable happened. At its core is existence, as matter-conscious nature united in being, thus
Coexistence is ever present. Thus existence itself is ever effective and present in the form of coexistence.
Is . The present is the revelation of reality in things. reality, material form, structure of things
And its splendor is equal to the simple sum total. the full splendor of everything
Is accessible including the environment or area of ​​influence.

Every single one in existence, as a result of being rich in power, is blessed with force, magnetic force,
is certified as such. Due to this truth, it is easy to have strength and existence in every part. proof of this
It means that more than one part, being at a certain distance from each other, expresses the system. each atom


<newpage>

58 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

It is always composed of more than one part. In every atom, atomic fragments including motion are active.
Are. An atom consisting of or consisting of at least two particles has a path of motion. atoms of two such fractions
There is a part in the middle and there is another part circling around it.
Get. Such atoms by their nature are in the form of molecules and in the form of bodies in motion. This way
Every atom formed from limited numerical parts is a system in itself - this is proof.

All atoms having the same numerical fraction belong to the same species. any of these
It is not personal. The atoms of those species are capable on the basis of their arrangement. this is the nature
Speed ​​is an easy proof of prestige. Only in the form of fragments, that is, such fragments which are not contained in any atom
These are minimal or non-existent on this earth and the earth's atmosphere.

If there is any fraction in the minimum number, it is in charged motion only. nature, speed, reputation of such a part
It is inevitable that a combination will occur with a prominent atom. Then that part came in coincidence
Gets absorbed into the atom. The proof of this is that one atom by its nature is in motion, the other species
Ka means that the nature of the atoms is different from the speed, the atoms formed from numerical parts are charged; charged in such a situation
Some numerical fraction of the atoms want to be externalized and remain in the charged state during some period.
Some part also comes out of that atom. In that situation it is seen that the atoms which
That atom, which is situated in the Svabhava Gati Pratishtha, assimilates the external parts into its formation, i.e.
Adopts. As a result he himself becomes prosperous. Existence naturally, through the above method, material objects
The activity of is basically studyable.

All things are filled with power and are full of power. For this reason, in every fraction, even in the fractions of fractions
The basic seed of being expressed in the form of a system is contained. The proof of this is the abundance of energy. in power
Abundance is the basis of continuous basic energy source. The entire nature has eternal power. power is
The vast opulence in form has been expressed in the present spontaneous form only in co-existence. That's why perfect
Existence is continuously expressed.

There have been discussions about the manifest and the latent in human tradition. While existence itself is complete existence
Can be seen in expressed form. Existence itself can be called the ultimate subtle existence. to human
Using language to express one's understanding is also a necessity. survival and


<newpage>

critical materialism 59

Even in Swadaj, we can see the activities of the older generation being recognized and carried out on the basis of sounds.
Got it.

Language and Human Language:

It would be relevant to understand the importance of language and human language here. at its core
Recognizing humans as a species is an imperative – because from an age of conflict to a solution
To be infected it is necessary to recognize humans as a species. In this i.e. human
The difficulties faced in recognizing humans as a race were made clear in the various histories of mankind.
Has gone. Again, it is important to keep in mind that no race, color, caste, sect, class or
Complete on the basis of religion, sect, language or country, full of differences of opinion or differences called religion.
Human beings could not be recognized as a unit as a species. of a human race
In form, the basic element to be recognized as a unit is the universal system itself. formula of which system
It is humanity itself.

Man himself, including humanity, is the system; This is the all-round solution, happiness, ultimate beauty and human religion.
Thus, humans can be recognized as a unit only on the basis of human religion. This
Recognizing the human being as a unit is an essential condition for transitioning into the Type Solution era.
Is or is an absolute necessity. Along with this, recognizing human language is also a necessity or
Came as a necessity. way of speaking, sound, pronunciation, human instinctive action freedom and
Due to imagination, things can be done in many ways. Human language has the same meaning or
The meaning is the same in all languages. This language exists for any object, work, country, time, process,
Result, position, movement are to be directed and indicated. That is, the meaning of language is existence, spontaneous present.
It happens. Like dog, cat, horse, donkey, ox, tiger, bear, earth, water, sky, stars, solar array, human
etc., whatever names they take, still the sound speed wave and sound used for them in all languages
The use of components and the way of presenting it – all these together form the form of language.
Such are the names of languages ​​like Hindi, English, Urdu etc. The things indicated by these languages ​​exist
Is, exists from existence, exists for the sake of existence. On this basis, the meaning of any language spoken for water
Water is the only thing. There should be a language for each thing in its own way to meet that meaning.
The object already exists. In this way, no matter how humans use language, there is meaning in it.


<newpage>

60 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The existence of an object is proved. In this way, no matter what language or how many languages ​​there are, its
Ashya or artha is to direct a definite object in existence.

“Issue: The entire existence depends on the expressed understanding or not on the latent understanding.” this controversy
Man remained trapped inside. Existence has not been understood, because both the prevalent isms (materialism,
Spiritualism) By considering any one part of existence as everything or by considering it as an object, all the imaginations
Spread it out. Such spread imaginations are placed in front of human beings in the form of a very thick illusion. This way
It is not within the power of every person to deal with the big problem i.e. to do the research in its basic form. so
Most people follow one ideology. In this method, there is a Wanderma in front of each person.
Or only one human remains.

From this, a more definitive review can be understood that the zodiac signs of Vanjgamaya are of only two types.
The origin of a species is a mystery which no one has been able to fathom. second
Uncertainty and instability are linked to the origin of species. Every person can understand that
It is not possible for anyone to measure the length and breadth of uncertainty, instability and mystery. so
Both these words can give or make one point to the human mind that “this is the truth”.
No such polar object was found.

Existence:- As being completely pointed in truth, being satisfied, being dynamic and being eternally certain, we
Every human being can see into, from, for. Existence neither decreases nor increases hence existence
It appears to be stable. Existence is ever present, therefore, existence is seen to be constantly stable.
falls. Existence itself is not a hindrance to anyone and there is no hindrance or interference by anyone on existence.
Are not. Existence is constant harmony, solution, that is why existence itself is the ultimate truth.

Power:- Power is widely visible to everyone in existence. Seeing means understanding
Is. Hence, the power for, from and for exists in a comprehensive form in every human being. It is visible. like each other
Whatever appears to be void in between is essentially power. physical-chemical objects and
Things like life (reality) are connected to existence. That is why everyone is surrounded and immersed in power.
It is visible that humans imagine the distance of each other on the basis of appearance and
Does matter. Like the distance of the Earth from the Sun is visible. This earth and every earth like it is immersed in power, surrounded by


<newpage>

critical materialism 64

And wet. To see immersed, surrounded, the thing itself is between each other - this is what has to be seen, this is
There is power.

Myth:- Chemical and physical things exist in solid, liquid and rare forms. even in rare cases
A molecule or more than one molecule combined is known as “one”. Similarly, the parts contained in an atom
If those parts are divided into parts then each part will be called “one”. this action behavior
Although it does not exist in form, the innate splendor of human imagination has been recognized in the form of mathematics. Mathematic
Basically, human imagination is based on the concept of decomposition through method. By this method also, atoms
Even after dividing a part contained in a number into many parts, each part is still called “one”.
Is. In this way no one can disappear. Human imagination against this truth
By falling into the trap of appearance and disappearance or by being delusional, she has become troubled. In existence
There is no such thing that is born or that which exists disappears; These two actions do not exist
Are. Human beings have been troubled by this delusional imagination. From this it is also understood that “Whatever was, remains the same.”
It happens; As in existence there was a state of matter, a state of life, a state of life and a state of knowledge”. The testimony of this
are evident on earth. Its viewer is human only. This vivid example of “What was is what was, and what was
No, that doesn't happen."

Intellectuals can use their discretion on this issue. On which earth did these four live before this earth?
We can ask where the conditions were. There are two faults in this - space and time. existence easy
Time and space cannot interfere in the grandeur of existence i.e. in the grandeur of the easy daily present.

Confused mind:- It is possible to use the integrity or continuity of the present in some other way.
Are not. Whatever methods there are, they all exist naturally. They all have continuity. any one else
Law cannot be limited in time and place. Whenever something is limited, it is prohibited
It is only there. The amazing thing is that there is no prohibition in existence. There is no place for prohibition, there is no movement for prohibition,
There is no situation of prohibition. You keep coming across the word prohibition, it is man-made. in the same order
Here humans have been used. Now the question arises that what is a prohibited word? The simple answer to this is
That is, “This is the revelation of a confused mind.” This is the revelation of confused imagination and confused desires.
There are publications. The basis of all these confused publications is only human beings.


<newpage>

62 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Now the question may also be that why do humans get confused? Why does one get trapped in illusion? existence of answer
It is easily seen that human is such an object (reality), which is different from non-human nature.
Fundamental supremacy is like a spontaneous celebration – to be controlled by law and prohibition. First of these – Karma
There is freedom. Second – is imagination. Third - Independent while doing work, dependent while enjoying fruits.
Are. Fourth - One who realizes refusal in his definition, is optimistic and certified in mental health.
Is going to do. It is easy to see all these originalities in every human being through observation and testing. all these
Due to the riches, man is the conscious observer of existence - this originality is also kept in the bag of man.
Is. Despite all this, the basic element of getting confused is right here, the powerful element is this -

4. There are still existing individualistic and communitarian traditions.
2. There is naturalness.
3. Environment.

The entire existence is an infinite, spontaneous environment located in each and every universe. “Naturalness” Earth, Air,
Can be seen in the form of water, greenery and living beings. Every human being is taught by tradition
see you. All these are daily proofs. On the basis of these only, education and culture, which are human gifts,
It is being seen that humans are getting confused. At this juncture, the so-called intellectuals can also ask:
The man who started talking about illusion and fearlessness is not confused? How to recognize this? because first
This man also belongs to one of the traditions in which the environment, naturalness and tradition have been talked about.
Is. Having questions like this is the innate glory of human imagination.

Bhram-Nirbham:- The answer to this question can be given by a seer (awakened person) in existence. That's why this
The person has raised the issue of fearlessness. Have read, seen, understood in the natural form of existence.
Is. Here it is worth remembering that when physical-chemical objects are studied in the form of state,
To – “Solutionary Materialism” postulated, then it is worth believing that
Whatever has been said is worth studying. There are no references to any previous texts for these. so
Whoever wants to understand it by studying these things can understand it and believe in these things.
can be done. Whatever is presented on this basis is essentially “existentially human-centred”.
“Thinking”. This has been said earlier also. It is only human who reads and studies it.
Will happen and is present in every human existence. It is enough to accept these simple facts. illusion-free


<newpage>

critical materialism 63

This is evident from the sequence of awakening in humans, from humans, for humans. What was there is the present. both of these things
Confirmation is being submitted for. In this simple fact only human beings are capable of being seen and understood. existence itself
Is present and in existence human is present in an indivisible form. This is the polar point, where decisions can be taken
Whatever it is, it happens. This is the condition for getting answers. All four stages including humans in front of humans
Nature is seen in power. The nature of these four states is visible in this earth. the earth itself
It appears to be functioning like a solar array. This solar array is an integral part of infinite solar arrays.
Appears to be working. Seeing means understanding. The ability to understand life in every human
Are included in the natural form.

Life is fundamentally composed of atoms. This has been clarified earlier. Hope, thought in life itself,
The inexhaustible powers of desire, determination and authenticity are visible at work in every human being.
which can be studied. Similarly, the inexhaustible force of mind, instinct, mind, intellect and soul, each
Active in humans. Its analysis has also been explained earlier. The fact to remember is this
That life's innate power and force work in an indivisible form. object of study is human
Further study is possible. With this method, it became possible for every person to study himself.
For this, Jeevan Vidya program plan and knowledge certification has been presented further. As such
A life full of inexhaustible strength and inexhaustible power is the only way to become glorious and certified in the vision of awakening.
Is able to do the work easily; Ever since human tradition awakens.

In order to awaken the tradition, alternative philosophies, alternative ideologies and alternative scriptures emerged.
This “solutional materialism” is a solution in order to offer the same. existence easy in this arrangement
It is our commitment to present the study. Existence is a continuous manifestation. The proof of this is present.
Existence itself is a form of solution. Due to human's confused intelligence, all the problems for human, community
Created by human imagination. Meanwhile whatever crimes and atrocities humans have committed against nature
Some of its results are being seen and heard in the form of incidents that frighten humans.
Such as pollution, seasonal imbalance, imbalance in the land environment etc. human with human community consciousness
Whatever treason, rebellion and exploitation has happened on the basis of developed and underdeveloped on the basis of
The impact of war and the possibility of a future world war have left humans distraught. today human
With no direction to find a solution, they are forced to accept that human beings are oppressed and exploited.


<newpage>

64 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Manav has arrived. But there is only one method to solve this problem – that is “solution method”. existence self solution
That is why the formula and possibility for the solution of all human beings through the simple method of existence is appropriate.
Most people are feeling the need for this.

Solution by complementation method:-

Solution in existence, no one's reputation in philosophy can be lost, no matter how much human
Try even the problematic ones. That is, some human child is always striving for the solution of all the auspicious things.
It always remains. This makes available the knowledge, wisdom and process that there is a need to eliminate each other.
No. All the stages have their own use, good use and purpose, their existence is determined by natural method only.
Is. This is the complementation method. This complementarity method in humans is based on recognizing relationships or
It is meaningful on the basis of evidence of subsistence. It is evident in every human being that
Wherever we are able to recognize relationships, there we find fulfillment of values. of this fact
The mutual relationship that exists at the base is a fundamental contract. This is also the contract completion and its continuity
Are contracted for. From the state of matter to the state of life, from the state of life to the state of life, from the state of life to the state of knowledge.
The proof of it being contracted is the present of all these. On this basis, from the state of knowledge to the state of existence,
There is a contract in the mutuality of living state with vital state, vital state with material state. Of these, human
All additional states have ratified their agreement through the complementarity method. because the material state
After the state of life, state of matter After the state of life, state of life After the state of matter, state of life After the state of life
The beginning and revelation of the eternal state of knowledge has taken place on this earth. In the understanding of human beings on this earth, this
It also comes to light that the state of being, the state of life and the state of matter are mutually complementary. They are all complementary to humans
Yes; But whatever man has done till the end of the twentieth century, all the other three stages of man have
Instead of being complementary to nature, it has been proven to be opposed and rebellious. proof of this
The voice of the people who are called enlightened and developed is that:-

4. Pollution has increased whereas the only cause of pollution are humans.
The atmosphere on earth has become unbalanced and is deteriorating.

2
3. The water surface in the sea has started increasing.
4. Forest wealth has been destroyed.

5

The seasons are becoming unbalanced.


<newpage>

critical materialism 65

6. Population is increasing.
All these people say that it is a developed country and a developing country. Underdeveloped countries should accept the findings of these countries.
Remaining the same.

Developed-Underdeveloped:- Currently developed countries, developing countries and underdeveloped countries.

Classification has also been done in an ironic and ridiculous manner:-

, Developed countries are those countries which are endowed with maximum military powers.

2. Only those countries are called developed countries in which maximum number of people have maximum food facilities.
Enjoy and store.

3. Only those countries are called developed where more people are moving towards enjoyment, over-indulgence and multi-indulgence.

4. Developed countries are those countries whose capital is engaged in business activities in many countries.
And efforts to gain monopoly on trade continue.

5. Only those countries are called developed countries in which the people living in them are technologically and intellectually proficient.
Do business.

Overall, it can be said that the countries which are rich in their profitable trade policy and strategic power.
He has become successful in politics and the most collectivist policy, and no one else has been able to reach his level.
have been, they are today called developed countries.

On the basis of the policies and nature mentioned above, developing and underdeveloped countries can be divided into developed countries.
We are forced to accept our ideal. War and trade are also important for all countries.
Remained ideal. Whereas war, exploitation, profit mania, pleasure mania, sexual ecstasy - these tendencies, whether the state
Be it the tendency of an individual, family or community, it is a reflection of the social structure and its
Couldn't help in maintaining the glory. Each of the above five types of tendencies
It is doubtful, as there is always doubt in business. Even those who are in the clutches of business know this.
Are. The ecstasy of profit, the ecstasy of pleasure, the ecstasy of pleasure all begin with passion. Passions are always painful. whether
Be it hypnotic passion (lust, greed, attachment) or oppositional (anger, lust, lust), in both the situations
Can see the pain.

War has always been animated by suspicion, suspicion, mistrust, discrimination, discrimination and punishment. there is deceit in it
Experiments are done, hypocrisy has to be spread. All these are signs of betrayal. betrayal, slaughter, destruction


<newpage>

66 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

No system has yet been established on this earth. Two big world wars took place on this earth,
Preparations have already been made for the third world war, this is the review after looking at all this past.
That no universal system can be established through exploitation, murder, destruction, betrayal, treason and rebellion.
Whereas only the system is present in existence. Man himself, due to his illusion i.e. overlap, non-overlap,
He has bought the unexplored defects due to his imagination and freedom of action. considering this a blessing
There is talk of development. There is no coordination between confusion and development. mutual complementarity-
Utility, methodical development, spontaneous movement is universal.

Coexistence is a naturally occurring process in the evolutionary atom. In this sequence the formation is completed.
Such a formed atom gets infected in the state of consciousness, this is the nature of life. first hope in this
That means confusion in hope, second thought bondage i.e. confusion in thoughts, third desire bondage i.e. confusion in desires.
is found. Through these three types of confusion, human beings are freed from illusion i.e. awakening from chaos till attaining ease.
There will be suffering due to the affair. The tradition itself is confused. The act of drowning the human race profiteering meaning
Thinking, erotic psychology, sensual sociology have done this. The entire propaganda system in favor of this
Getting work to do. The only option to get rid of this is - circular economic thinking, behaviorist
Sociology and human conscious psychology. Chemical-physical objects and their activities
Only when humans are able to see it in the form of a system can the idea of ​​recurring meaning be easily understood.
Is. The fundamental element of periodicity is the complementarity of chemical abundance, for physical objects and
The complementarity of things is dedicated to chemical splendor; The main element in this is human understanding of it
It is only there.

The formula for self-satisfaction and prosperity lies at the root of everything a human being thinks.
Remains present. This study and research is to understand the innate natural methods of human existence as they are.
Means. Man has wanted good since time immemorial, but has been wandering in his own different dimensions.
Whatever man has developed in his understanding since ancient times, everything has been done for his own glory.
Ignoring the items, he was able to select them using the reduction method while the study remained as is.
Finds.

Existence is easily visible in the form of grandeur, matter, life and living beings. All this is some human plan
The earth has prospered without it. The basic point of the study is – from the status quo, with the complete method.


<newpage>

critical materialism 67

Recognizing coordination, relationships and duties with humans. Whenever humans can study, reality
Only through method, man is able to study spontaneous awakening. Right now the main issue is that whatever existence
Is that contradiction tormented by external conflicts or is the inner music rich in outer music? on these facts
Paying attention, testing using prudence and scientific method and accepting the facts - this is study.
is the abstract form of. Such study-innate concepts can be known only through the innate rules of self-culture such as co-existence.
She goes.

After accepting the reality of chemical-physical things, it was seen that both these situations
Working in a complementary manner to each other. composition of chemical-physical objects
There are natural meanings. Looking at these activities it becomes clear that creation and destruction are necessary for each other.
is complementary. Basically, there is no disappearance of the basic elements contained in things, that is, neither things are destroyed.
There is no need to exist, nor is there to be a new birth.

The very definition of substance is to express difference of meaning through difference of words. Like life cells in the form of grains in the fields
In the forests, life cells are in the form of trees and plants. Anatomy of aquatic, aquatic and terrestrial organisms also
It is clear that it is from life cells. Basically, it is necessary to know that the vital cells are essentially the same.
Is of species. Pranakoshas express their splendor through the shapes of various creations. Like one cell
Cells in the order of creation see the formation of another cell of their species by a combination of chemical splendor.
gets to. The meaning of a lexical structure is that it is in accordance with the formula that remains in the lexicon.
Forms the cell of the species. Such creations were created in the initial period i.e. when life existed on any earth.
Communication, chemical splendor, expression of vital cells and creation created from vital cells begins,
Since then these processes are found to have remained established.

The above fact has been clarified in the fourth and fifth chapters.

4. There is development in existence.

2. The developed and fully formed atom remains infected throughout life.

3. Every formed atom (satisfied atom) is infected in the state of consciousness.

4. Every conscious unit i.e. “life” remains free from weight bondage and molecular bondage.


<newpage>

68 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

5. Every life, while being awakened, suffers from the bondage of hope, bondage of thought and bondage of desire.
To suffer like this is an illusion. On the contrary, awakening of justice in humans i.e. recognition of relationships,
Upholding the values ​​and validating the evaluation actions in traditions is awakening.

6. All-round solution i.e. having a system in itself and participating in the overall system.
Validating as an activity is awakening.

7. To prove the evidence of human existence and to live a self-disciplined life.
Validating art is the ultimate awakening. Thus the human tradition is in awakening, from, for- it
is clear.

Man has the innate compulsion to be aware of the natural nature of life and the things related to the environment.
It remained. Have expressed the desire to know this effect. Only by the method of free will, this
It is possible to be certified because humans have equal access to environment and nature. Whereas
Existence is a natural environment, that is, existence is intact as a daily present, it is the same for everyone.
There is attainment. Samprapti means attainment for perfection. As far as the man-made environment is concerned, it
It has been seen in different forms in different countries. which has been expressed in various forms throughout human history
Is. This diversity will continue until the human tradition is awakened in accordance with the natural attainment of existence.
Let it happen. The pursuit of awakening in the human tradition is justice, reconciliation and authenticity. human evidence of which
Tradition has to be expressed in the form of a united society and universal system.

Man appears happy, prosperous and beautiful only after awakening. Every human being is happy,
Wants to remain satisfied, prosperous and beautiful. Due to lack of awareness of tradition or full awareness
As a result of absence, humans suffer from frustration and lack. This human tradition of spontaneous awakening
are the conditions of human beings found in. As a human being, every person always wants good.
It makes sense on a survey basis. The art of living as auspicious in each person and the style of thinking.
Disagreements persist in the relationship. This is the contradiction within the human being or the external opposition against expectations. it
Man is not an innate reality but an illusion of tradition. Most in the form of tradition propagation and education
Is it effective or are the above mentioned two methods shown capable of influencing every human being in the tradition?
Are falling. It is necessary for both of these to be based on reality. Frenzy, delusion, convenience, enjoyment - like hypnosis


<newpage>

critical materialism 69

It is for this very reason that everyone has been teaching and propagating. Along with this, mystery and faith have also remained.
Therefore, the desired happiness, prosperity, solution and beauty were not possible for humans.

Solution and order are inseparable. The bearer of solutions is a necessity in every human being.
Is seen in. The system is validated only with completeness. Solution is a sign of awakening.
Every person wants to be awakened. The only solution is to pave the way for awakening. in tradition
Meaning of awakening - goal, form, work and purpose of awakened human being in education, culture, system, constitution.
By becoming clear. Sanskar means acceptance, concept only. human being awakened into existence
The concept seen for the purpose of is-

4. Life Knowledge
2. Existential philosophy knowledge
3. Knowledge of humane conduct

These are the things to accept. In human tradition, the object of awakening perfection is also the same. these three
The only traditions acceptable to the ultimate truth indicated in the points are the traditions of human values. the above three
Method of utility of the object indicated in points, method of good utility, method of being useful, method of study.
That is, these are the basic objects of education. Human traditions are also an inseparable present in existence. every human life
And are in the combined form of the body. Man's sense-approach on the basis of considering himself as body
Desires (desires enjoyed through the senses) become the focal point in life's work. As a result, chaos, problem,
Poverty, wickedness, all this comes into our hands. Whereas the bearer and bearer of the body is also life itself. This is the process.
Unless an intuitive understanding of body and life is achieved, man remains confused. on this basis
The need and motivation to awaken life is innate. By second method-

4. Humans exist.

2. Human beings are indivisible in existence.

3. Man knows, believes, recognizes and survives only through awareness. this life spontaneous awakening
Is the process.

4. The process of awakening is the glory of every human being getting certified.


<newpage>

70 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

To know, believe, recognize the coexistence of chemical-physical activities in existence in an intuitive way,
To survive is proof of awakening. Coexistence itself is a system or we can say that coexistence
In form the system is ever present. The present is the entire object of study in, for, and in humans. Thus
Since existence itself is coexistence. Coexistence in evolution, development, life, life awakening, chemical-
Physical structure and structures are the entire dimension for study. While existence as a whole is the subject of study
For this, for the culture, for the system, there is complete prosperity. It is always expedient for man to
It always remains. All the troubles, troubles and problems that human beings have faced, they all come from the seat of education,
This is the miracle of royal throne and religious throne. In today's situation, education is paramount. bearer of education
In this way, all the stalwarts, intellectuals, leaders and litterateurs are trying to get respect but it is not happening.

When I consciously presented myself to study existence naturally, I came to know that existence is holistic.
Only then it was discovered that human being is also indivisible in existence. "human life
And is the combined physical form of the body” – this has been explained earlier. In this context also see
Found that life itself attains the status of a watcher by awakening in co-existence. This is the basis of life satisfaction
The point is to be certified in the form of life awakening tradition and to remain there to prove spontaneous awakening.
Have the right. In this sequence, it is known that man is the conscious observer. meaning of being famous
That the indicated facts have been accepted by all. It can become widespread and every person
Is obliged to accept it. The meaning of this compulsion is in the form of need, thought, desire, imagination.
It is with consent. Awakening can be tested in terms of innate need. Children, old people, wise people,
Ignorant, poor or rich, everyone can be tested on whether awakening is a necessary element or not.
No. Everyone's conclusion would be that awakening is necessary. Thus the need for awakening in humans
Being famous is certified.

The result of awakening is to know, believe, recognize and live. This awakening in every person
Can be certified. This is possible only when the tradition itself, which is the cause, holder and source of awakening,
Stay awake. Till now the tradition itself remained confused. The result is that a united society and its continuity
Was not achieved and universal system was not achieved. The proof of this is that till now the united society
Neither could the form of a universal system be formed.


<newpage>

critical materialism and

In order to achieve universal system, chemical and physical activities have to be studied systematically.
will be. Methodical study means to study the evidence and splendor of existence which is naturally present.
Similarly, to know, believe, recognize and live. By doing this it becomes clear that the chemical compositions,
Consciousness is complementary to nature and creations are complementary to inanimate nature. basic form of physical objects
And the proof of the system is the atom, the object that expresses development. each atom arranged in its own
There is evidence of existence. The fact that molecules and molecules are objects in the form of bodies has been made clear.
Is. Therefore, the basis for recognizing system and development is atom and not composition.

The creation is not greater than the object in which it is contained. In another way which the object with which
Remains, the complete originality of that creation is similar to that object. In order to understand this
One iron atom, infinite atoms, one iron body, many such bodies are seen. iron
The value of the number of atoms contained in one molecule of iron is basically: The iron content in one atom is the same.
Happens. On this basis, the compositions, shapes, volumes, cubic forms made from atoms of any one species
There are definitely increases and decreases. On its basis i.e. on the basis of human body, on the basis of measurement and weight
By increasing and decreasing in the manner which we call quantity, the quality and nature of those things which are called “tatva”
It remains certified as neither decreasing nor increasing. This is evidence that development
Every point in the sequence is certain in its own sequence of development, because iron, gold, gem all have their own importance.
It is clear that the species is composed of atoms. All this indicates certainty in the course of development.
Is. On this basis, in co-existence, each is a system with its own essence and is a participant in the overall system.
Is. Makes this truth famous.

In this sequence, chemical objects are a system with their “essence” and are participants in the overall system.
It is from life cells that entire plants are created. It is from these life cells that aquatic life, aquatic life,
The body of land animals also remains composed. Out of these, all the creations of life (i.e. trees and plants) are seasonal.
On the basis of balance, it remains prosperous and supplements it in the form of food etc. for living beings and humans.
The structure of the vital state is complementary to the material state – this has become clear and proved. all these fertilizers
By converting into form, they increase the fertility of the earth. Thus physical-chemical objects
It proves the system in the form of coexistence.


<newpage>

72 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Existence is simple in the present when a human being is in an alert observer state - in such a situation physical-chemical
And conscious life, all these things are present in a comprehensive and indivisible form in the existence of vast, infinite space.
Being and living is acceptable – it is understandable. In order to awaken in this human being, from, for,
Is the main issue. Experiencing such indivisibility in the present is the proof of fearlessness. thus this
After understanding existence, every human being becomes authentic.

To be authentic, it is possible for humans to experience the truth of coexistence. This to everyone
This is possible only when education is humanized. In these three situations, for human beings to be glorious
Knowledge of life, knowledge of existence philosophy and knowledge of humane conduct are the main elements. This truth is easy
It is a necessity to humanize the awakening because:-

4. Only through awakening is human tradition expressed in an all-round solution.
Only in the awakened human tradition, awakened education and culture are fully accessible.
Justice and security are easily accessible in human tradition only through awakening.
Jagriti Sahaj Manav tradition proves the ease of production.

एनचाकी एड

It is only in the awakened human tradition that the revolving economic system is based on labor planning and labor exchange system.
There is ease of exchange.

6. Family based self-governance system should be accessible to all through the ten-step method only in the awakened human tradition.
Finds. These are expected, desired and necessary achievements for all human beings.
The root of its success lies in human tradition. That is, humane education, values, constitution and
There is arrangement. This is proved by humane or enlightened method, system and policy.
Is.

Awakening of tradition is possible only when, in times of change, it is done with depth on the basis of truths.
In practice, at least one person has the integrity to authenticate the evidence. more than one person
It is even better to have the integrity to prove it.

Today we are able to observe human history in various ways. There are two places in it that look like this
There are places where there could have been a combination of depth, seriousness and practical evidence, but it did not happen.


<newpage>

critical materialism 73

, There was such a place when idealism, idealistic thought, idealistic system, idealistic education
In 1855, people became ready to submit to the constitution and the sacraments. behavior at that moment
Could be accepted as inevitable. Whereas this did not happen, as a result a universal system could not be achieved.

2. Such a possibility was very close when the human psyche changed from idealistic thought to materialistic thought.
The time has come to turn. Even at that time, materialistic thinking acknowledged the need for practical evidence.
Ignored. Now the time is coming to transition to the solution era. at least for now
We are all seeking to transition from the conflict to the solution era. It's great to see this
It is necessary that “humanity” continues to be proved in practice.

What it means to be certified in “humanity” is that –

, We will be proficient in life knowledge. Will have confidence in oneself and will respect one's superiority.
Will remain fearless in philosophy of existence.

Swadhan, Swaanari/Swapurush, will behave with kindness.

Will utilize and protect body, mind and wealth.

Will recognize relationships, maintain values, evaluate.

एनचाकी एड

This is the meaning of mutual satisfaction and balance to prove humanity in practice.

Every unit of every stage is a system with its own essence and while participating in the overall system
Is visible. Along with this sutra, one more sutra goes hand in hand – maintaining the partnership i.e.
To recognize and fulfill. This splendor can also be seen in physical-chemical methods, like -

More than one part in an atom exists by recognizing each other - hence there is order. molecule
Are stored in the form of composed bodies. Or even remain in rare form. These all complement each other
They work according to the law - this is proved. Evidence of this is found in molecular bodies composed of iron atoms.
Manav sees. Similarly, gold etc. can also be converted into metals, gems, stones and soil in their natural form.
Each species maintains harmony within itself and all species with all other species.
This is how the form of this earth is visible. Chemical natural splendor has become glorious in this very earth.
That is, all the creations of chemical substances that were to take place have already taken place. “Should have happened” means that
In coexistence, all creative work, results and purposes remain accepted. The testimony of this is that-


<newpage>

74 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

4. The entire creation of the material state, its result is accepted as complementarity in coexistence.
2. Similarly, Pranavastha, Jivavastha, Jnanavastha are the natural body structures, their purpose and function.
Coexistence is accepted.

The principle of acceptance in coexistence is this - participation in the system and the overall system including the 'tva', this
Coexistence is a natural expression. Therefore this system and the functioning of participation in the system
And the result is already approved. The proof of this is that the atom can be disintegrated atomically.
Action and result are found to be accepted in existence through complementation method. Similarly, a tree and
The plant also expresses its work and results in the form of structure through its cotyledonous method.
Does. It is acceptance in coexistence. In this context it has already been clarified that the entire
Vegetable compositions are found to be supplementary to all living beings and humans in the form of food etc.
The same is found to be complementary to the state of matter in the state of structure.

It is also seen in living beings that most of the hereditary traditions follow certain work-behavior.
Yes- It has become clear. All these are found to exist in the combined form of body and life. the body itself
It is the form of many creations. In these creations, for the living species, for the vital state and for the material state.
is found to be complementary. All the wild animals are in the living state for the plants i.e. in the vital state.
It is seen that it is complementary to. Many plants are formed from the respiration of animals and excreta.
The disease is cured. When the body gets decomposed, it becomes manure and dung. In this way all three
Human beings see the mutual complementarity of states. Man is complementary to these three stages, it
Accepts. When one experiences its need, it meets the criteria of complementarity.
Man has not yet passed the test properly.

It is still awaited to be complemented (for other human states). The facts obtained by this method
What is indicated is that through the awakened method, human beings also come into contact with other nature i.e. the state of life, the state of life,
It is complementary to the material state and to the human being. This existence is an innate truth, but traditions
There remained confusion and due to his own ignorance, all the opportunities and needs of human beings to supplement
However, humans have not been able to achieve that much complementarity. Till now some people have done something for the human race.
Even today, songs are sung about people who have been complemented in any way or in any aspect.


<newpage>

critical materialism 75

The proof of complementarity for all those dimensions in the multi-dimensional history of man is given by man to his clan.
Could not dedicate for. For this reason, now it is the responsibility of enlightened human beings that in all dimensions
Please fill in the vacant and required portion. The first and foremost dimension to see is this.
Got - participation in the system and the overall system. Man will be able to compensate for this only by awakening.

Awakening is the eternal expectation and need of human beings. Now this became possible in this way-

According to the existential human-centric philosophy, humans are the only unit that can think. fundamentals of thinking
Or the original grandeur of life in the form of knowing and accepting it naturally and as its point of satisfaction.
Is in. This is the glory of philosophical knowledge in humans. Coexistence philosophy is the ultimate philosophy because coexistence is
It is the ultimate truth and the knowledge of life is the ultimate knowledge. The solution is to interview it. human behavior
The ultimate conduct is in the human being, from, for, because the human being is a system in itself including humanity and is holistic.
Can participate in the arrangement. Every person needs it.

Humans can see and understand the entire nature in physical, chemical and conscious form in a spontaneous co-existence.
Finds. The life that is being seen in the form of consciousness is the only one who can see it. visible thing
Becomes studyable for humans. Like selection and taste, analysis and comparison in every human being,
Imagery and contemplation, resolution and understanding, authenticity and experience – these ten activities are spontaneous activities of life.
In order to publish, communicate and express themselves, the body is considered alive. survival of the body
It is believed. These activities can be studied in every human being through observation and testing.
Out of these ten actions, some of them remain proven in practice. Some actions cannot be verified
Well, that's basically it: life is inherently unsatisfying and problematic. The result is chaos. so right now
At present, how many activities are proven in practice and how many are not proven in practice?
Yes, we can analyze it. And whatever activities are not being proved in practice,
Can recognize. Appropriate measures can be taken to resolve this. because every human being
In life, spontaneous imagination and freedom of action are always effective. Finding solutions on this basis
In humans, it is easily possible to, from, for. Every human being can live a conscious life by performing these ten activities on his own.
One can recognize in oneself, for one's own self, and one can also study the human being found in reciprocity.
Human beings, found in reciprocity, behave with the reciprocity they naturally receive. in behaviour


<newpage>

76 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Those activities of life which have awakened - this is what is being published, communicated and expressed. other verbs
That is, the remaining activities which are not awakened are not illuminated.

The ten activities mentioned above are the complete activities of life. All these activities are indivisible.
Indivisibility means not being separated from each other. This also makes it clear that life is
There is glory in completeness and life has no divisions. any pressure, any amount of pressure and
Life cannot be divided into parts by fragmentation methods, because of pressure and division.
Whatever is the hypothesis, it seems to be most clearly manifested in humans only. Its
The meaning is that something needs to be done by dividing human life into parts i.e. by fragmentation and pressure.
Can but will not be able to do because many such things can be imagined in imagination.
Can. Humans see this, water flows, hence it is imagined that soil will also flow, stones will also flow.
Can do even though it doesn't happen. It also became clear that on the basis of examples more
By giving an example of an object clearly different from the one whose reality is to be studied, that object is
It is not possible to study. Which we want to study by example like the example above
And the study was told. In this, stone and soil are studied according to their behavior.
It has to be done not according to the behavior of water. In this way we also understand that study
The basis of this is their conduct.

Keeping the above fact in mind, let us see that the method of study which humans have mistakenly considered to be state-of-the-art
Yes, that is so absurd. That method is - If you want to study a human being, then cut the human being and look at it.
If you want to study a tree then cut the tree and see; If you want to study a molecule, cut the molecule;
If you want to study an atom, cut an atom. In this study method, it is divided into sections or
Pressure method is considered more effective for causing damage - like “pressure of magnetic force”.
“Charge is created in the atom by inserting” – As a result, separation of all the particles is found.
The atom itself is the most subtle, hence the basic system is contained in the atom itself, hence the pressure.
Charge and fission were found using the same method. In this basically “Who got the power and what got it”- this
On searching, the answer is found that “Foreign power means magnetic electric power and force other than nuclear.
Felt” – it was communicated. That is why the disorder that was supposed to occur in the atom happened. This is how we know this


<newpage>

critical materialism or

It is believed that in the modern study method, no object can be studied without distorting it.
goes.

Along with this, we could have asked one more question, “Whose power was this?” to explore it
But we find that the power and strength of human imagination and freedom of action was put into it.
We can see its natural connection. Man's freedom of action can be recognized only through imagination-
The work of subsistence is done by every human being. Imagination, action is the result of freedom
The natural phenomenon electricity was recognized. This was seen as momentum. electricity at its core
Magnetic elements were assumed to exist or were recognized from earlier events. as a result
The study of magnetic activities in humans became a tradition. In this study tradition, human imagination,
These magnetic-electric phenomena can be understood only by using the freedom of action. this relation
Today studies are conducted without pairing. The truth is that human imagination, freedom of action,
It is only by chance that events can be identified and events can occur. in the same order
Man has recognized the magnetic electric phenomenon and made it happen. Thus even today
It is confirmed that it was like this before and will remain like this all the days.

Even according to scientific history, it has been accepted that a certain person, an event
For this, the outline of the incident along with the appropriate action (action process) should be systematically studied.
goes. Despite this, we forget that it is human imagination and freedom of action.
This is a gift, a luxury. Going into the reason for this, it becomes clear that when an event happens for the first time,
For the man who was the driving force and inspiration, there could not have been others for him. Second, human innate splendor
According to this, any event can be recognized and the event was caused by a human being. humans have completely
Made the undertakings accessible to study. Got ready to trade that knowledge. These two reasons
Man has discovered a way to mislead the tradition mentioned above. this way today
The trade of technical science became popular. Human tradition was damaged by this. can be seen like this
That:-

4. If a human being cannot resemble the original person by studying the researched object, then it
This became the basis of betrayal towards oneself.


<newpage>

78 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

2. Man betrays himself (by betraying the environment, nature)
Has just arrived. The proof of this is that the imbalance in nature and environment kept on increasing) such as human-human
Deepening of mistrust, treason, rebellion, exploitation tendencies, increase in the temptation to collect, mutual
Exploitation, war, treason, rebellion among communities being the basis of politics – all these are testimonies.

No better society has been created thus far nor will it be possible through this method. Its
The principle is that no matter how many times mistakes are repeated, no correct answer emerges. Positive
No matter how many times you repeat each correct task using the method, the result will be a correct and meaningful solution.
Now in this world the human being should be asked “Do you want right or wrong?” So everyone is on the right side
Only gives consent. Also what is right and wrong? - On asking this the answer comes out that
The transition point or boundary line of right and wrong is not clear. This is achieved according to both the previous ideologies.
It is a form of logic.

The transition point or boundary line between right and wrong is understandable to an awakened human being. awakened human
He is the only developed human being. Only the humans who strive for awakening are the developing humans. for awakening
An active human being can be identified in the category of awakening, semi-awakened and semi-awakened human. awakening
The proof is - existence philosophy i.e. complete awareness towards co-existence i.e.:-

, The one who has the complete answer to what existence is like.
2. One who is proficient in the study of life knowledge i.e. the form of consciousness and whose human conduct is present.
To be certified in this is the nature of an awakened person.

This means that one who knows life well; existence well
Knows, believes and has humane conduct i.e. self-respect, self-love, self-respect and compassionate behavior.
do; Makes good use and protection of body, mind and wealth, recognizes relationships, values
Lives - this is the value, character, moral human conduct.

In this way the nature, work and proof of an awakened human being becomes clear. It is studyable in human race
Being and being practical is easy. The basis of awakened human tradition is also based on these three facts.
Just by being in. Humanity is proved in the form of knowledge of life and humane conduct.
Is. Coexistence philosophy proves scholarship in its present form. Life knowledge is life knowledge.


<newpage>

critical materialism 79

Existence itself is the entire object of scholarship. Humanity is complete conduct. Only a united society is wise.
It is the glory of humanity. The universal system is the proof of the indivisible present of the awakened human being in existence.
Is. Self-discipline in humans is the proof of complete awakening. Thus certified in goodness, supported
Patience, bravery, generosity, kindness, grace and compassion in human beings inspired by innate human nature.
And one gets the state of being alive. right, justice, solution, prosperity, best human family, human
Society is the innate splendor of the human system. This developed family means awakened family, awakened society.
Or an awakened human being can become meaningful in the sense of an integral society.

This is the significance and purpose of solution materialism.

It is only on the basis of awakening that justice is established through human relationships, values ​​and evaluation methods. it
There is evidence of awakening. Relationship in coexistence is a natural present, to recognize it is awakening. to the relationship
The proof of recognition is to live up to the values. From this the formula becomes clear that the fulfillment of values
Life is easy to do. It is human nature to recognize relationships. Man as a combined form of body and life
Are. Life forces and forces are expressed in whatever a human being can recognize naturally.
The proof of this becomes self-evident when we remember its activities in various dimensions of human history.
It happens. As human powers have developed in the things that man has been able to recognize since ancient times.
That is, the powers in the form of hope, thought and desire have always been felt. consider it along any dimension
Take a look and test yourself with one of the current identities. every human being on this earth
If we look at it then we find that its powers are flowing in the relationships as we have identified them.
Is visible.

Just as a person has recognized his child, in that situation the values ​​of love and affection flow automatically.
In the same way as you recognize your own child and shower affection on him, similarly you should recognize any other child.
In such a situation, the same outpouring of affection and affection is seen. A friend with a friend
Only after fully recognizing the relationship can identification and subsistence take place. identify with each friend in the same way
And it is natural to be able to survive. If we look deeply in this way, every person is in front of us with friendship.
Always wishes to meet. Every person expects trust from every person, not
Of disbelief. The proof of this is that the adversity of unknown country, unknown person, unknown language etc.
When a person makes a mindset to meet each other despite being


<newpage>

80 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Believes more in keeping the faith. In this sequence, the number of participants in every organization
There remains a desire to maintain mutual trust. Belief in the interconnectedness of every community and every country
In a situation of living on a definite pattern of subsistence, mutually friendly nations are called friendly communities.
Are. That is, in the event of mutual expectations being fulfilled, it is called mutual friendship. Its
A definite point of justice or a universal point of justice can be proved only with humanity and erudition.

Existence is inherent in human beings; faith in the overall existence, faith in the present, faith in oneself.
Being becomes recognizing relationships, living values, evaluating. this awakened human
Only in tradition everything becomes accessible and possible. This is not possible in community traditions. Its
The proof is past history till date.

Trust is basically loyalty in the present. In case of satisfaction as a result of loyalty, his (loyalty)
Effort remains for continuity. At present the solution is proof of the system itself. such an all-rounder
The solution is proved in tradition, universal system and united society. In order to provide an all-round solution
Every human being is able to be certified as a participant in the system. This is the solution in every human being.
There is proof.

The chemical-physical objects and the living world are self-contained. chemical-physical objects complementarity,
Sublimation always presents the proof of being organized by method or rule. in which visible form
There is no contribution of human beings in this because in any earth where there will be human beings, before his incarnation
Only chemical-physical splendor and activity of living beings has been present. In the above three traditions
The system and participation in the system have become clear. The meaning of arrangement is to have grandeur in the present, tradition
To be intact as. Dead (soil), stone, gem, metal, vegetation, living beings - these are present in their hereditary
They remain glorious in their seminal and consequential nature, and remain intact as a tradition.

Man is still expressed in the sequence of events including history of different dimensions. live like a human in history
Looking at what has been and is currently living, it becomes clear that participation in the universal order and system
Humans have not been able to verify the evidence. As a result, the form of a united society becomes meaningful.
It remained as expected. This means that whatever way mankind lives in its own way
Humanity has neither been recognized as it came and as it is at present, nor has it been given any consideration in the system.
Has not been given any form, nor has it been considered the basis of a united society. The proof of non-acceptance is in education


<newpage>

critical materialism 8

Lack of humanity, lack of humanity and humanity in culture and tradition, lack of human values ​​in the constitution.
And lack of evaluation, lack of humanity-humanity relationship in the system and its maintenance.

The economy, culture and system of the state is a natural splendor. Meaning of religion is all-round solution, complete knowledge is sanskar.
Yes, it is education versus scholarship. The whole basis of human being is humanity, this coexistence is natural as evidenced by experience.
It is scholarship. The proof is also humanity and scholarship. Education is also humanity and scholarship. constitution also
There is humanity and scholarship. The system is also humanity and scholarship. In this way, humanitarian tradition continues
While being expedient, race, colour, mystery and object of various languages, creeds and sects are important i.e. overlap,
Anavyaapti, Ayaapti, those who are called scholars and knowledgeable by mistake, rule, religion, science, health, art and
Literary scholars recommended confused tradition in place of human tradition, as a result the entire
The propaganda system itself became dependent on illusion. That is why the concept of a better society could not emerge.
The meaning of the best society is a united society. Due to this confusion, the glory of man could not be proved.
Whatever is called the present of human beings, it is only the increase in population, that is, the increase in population is the only present left.
Is.

Humanity in its nature is humane conduct along with knowledge of life. form of scholarship existence
It is just a darshan. To understand existence means to know, believe, experience its satisfaction point.
It is a philosophy. The indivisible splendor of the ten activities mentioned earlier in humans is called life knowledge. it yourself
Recognizing, knowing, believing and experiencing its fulfillment point and justice, religion versus omniscient
Solution: Truth versus experience and authenticity should be expressed, communicated and published in a complete manner.
Life means knowledge.

Life consists of spontaneous activities, realizations and experiences. Coexistence in the order of satisfaction, spontaneous material state,
The state of life, the state of life and the state of knowledge, all these states are present in the being in the form of inanimate-conscious nature, which is present continuously.
Existing, ever present. Knowing, believing this simple truth and experiencing the point of satisfaction,
Maintaining continuity, making its expression and communication meaningful through the study method, as well as
Proving the art of living through self-discipline is the meaningful form of philosophy.

For true understanding and experience, the viewer can understand the story only through knowledge and vision. to understand
Basically knowing is a process of believing. Experience is the combined form of knowing and believing. its satisfaction and
Intactness is a tradition full of wisdom. The term seer can be used only in the form of perception and experience.


<newpage>

82 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It has been seen, understood and experienced. Truth can be understood and experienced only in a natural way.
The ultimate truth is coexistence. Existence is the total eternal present. visible in existence on this earth
There are four stages. The proof of this is that these four conditions are self-evident on this earth. In existence
To be is to be certified anytime, anywhere.

As we are seeing now, we understand that there is no animal or vegetation on the Moon. there in time
There is a possibility of all this happening. The Sun was recognized as the hottest object according to human knowledge.
goes. It also comes to human imagination that it may cool down with time – think like this also.
Can. In such a situation, imaginations are run about what would be the condition and speed of this earth.
Is. If the Sun cools down then it is inevitable that the liquid will change into solid form. Then
It can be assumed that the Earth has become like the Moon. Now as we think, hope in the moon,
That in the future, Rasa, Puras and chemical splendor can materialize there. Let it be like this in the sun also
It may be possible to think. Human imagination is not limited, it can be any amount
Is. Human natural imagination is inexhaustible while existence itself is vast and unbroken. with the words
Express the reality. This testimony shows that human beings have an innate imagination and are observers of the past and present.
goes. Even if he is not a viewer of imaginary scenes.

In this way, it is definitely evident in every person (being a visionary and being imaginative).
Existence is infinite and vast. Are free from country time. On this basis, the country will be of timeless glory.
It is inevitable to happen. This word seer has natural meaning in human beings. only human beings awakened into existence
The observer is in position. The seer, the seen, the vision are indivisible, because all four states of existence are indivisible in existence.
The fact that an awakened human being is proved to be indivisible in existence is the proof of the status of a seer. Considering this fact
When brought in, the review of human beings including multidimensional work becomes clear on the basis of their actions.

Existence is ever present, the awakened human being is in the observer position; This is the ultimate truth, a view based on
Is. Looking at the past from this perspective, in the manner of history, shows that all traditions have their own
She used various deceit, force, hypnotism and allurement for the community or individual and this caused problems.
Kept increasing. The basic reason for this is that the confused human community is confused in its own way in the tradition.
He continued to use his life's energies to create a confused tradition. human life since ancient times
And the combined physical form of the body is the life forces working earlier also in the form of fear, temptation due to the consciousness of the living being.


<newpage>

critical materialism 83

Has been doing, is still working. On this basis, we are currently conducting tests related to illusion-freeness.
Then it becomes clear that:-

, For the first time, humans have been considering imaginations as truth under the illusion of truth.
Accepts truth on the basis of confused thoughts.

Accepts truth on the basis of confused desires.

Coexistence becomes understandable on the basis of understanding truth.

एनचाकी एड

One understands the truth on the basis of experience in the ultimate truth of co-existence and remains certified.

The important fact in this illustration is that ten actions have been described in humans, out of which five actions are based on force.
In form and five actions are used as power. Force and power in the awakened human being, from, for
They are also certified as position and momentum. Position and motion are inseparable, it is considered as such in itself
Can be experienced, can be observed. Morale as taste-selection, instinct force
In the form of comparison and analysis, the power of mind in the form of thinking and drawing, the power of intellect in the form of understanding and resolution,
Self-confidence comes from recognizing the experience as authenticity. Powers respectively mind power selection
In form, in the form of instinctual analysis, in the form of visualization of mind power, in the form of intellectual power and resolution,
Self-power can be certified in the form of authenticity.

There is no question of a confused human being being social. Inhumans in the form of animals and monsters in the form of humans.
Are explained in. Demons are dominated by human cruelty and animal humans are dominated by humility, both of them
Come under inhuman category. That is why crimes flourish in inhuman traditions.

Therefore, most people feel the need to draw meaningful conclusions. towards conclusion
The futility of traditions is understood when imagination, thoughts and desires run wild. what in return
Yes – this is the point. Reconcilative materialism used science, reason and
Adopted knowledge based logic system. Science means time-based, action-based and decision-based knowledge.
Viveka means immortality of life i.e. richness of life knowledge, mortality of body and rules of behavior.
That is:-

4. Intellectual rules

2. Social rules

3. It is from natural law.


<newpage>

84 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Meaning of intellectual law:-

, Non-collection means participation in the revolving economy.

2. Khreh means faith in recognizing relationships, in living up to values.

3. To be proficient in the knowledge of life, to have confidence in being proficient, to have natural harmony between talent and personality.
trust | Believing in being social in behavior and self-reliant in business.

4. Simplicity i.e. confidence in recognizing relationships and confidence in following and evaluating values.
believe in

5. Fearlessness means belief in participation in the system and the overall system including humanity itself.

Social rules :-

4. Swadhan means money received in the form of rewards, rewards and prizes.
2. Self-marriage and self-conjugal relationship obtained through marriage.
3. Compassionate behavior means the complete work of helping in the development of the underdeveloped.

Natural law is related to four principles:-

4. Complementarity, utility, rule, control, balance
sublimation, protection
development, development, awakening, awakening

ri 7

System including element and participation in overall system

Natural Law:- In its nature, man has to maintain his natural relationship with natural resources.
There is belief in recognition and recognition in form, because for humans, non-human nature is natural and
Human is natural for non-human nature. In this, it is a natural rule to follow the method of complementation.

4. Balance:- Belief in preserving and protecting natural resources in the sense of seasonal balance; imbalance
Believe in creating a balanced situation. natural wealth in proportion to its growth
Belief in using balance and making good use of it.

2. Conservation:- Belief in preserving the earth, climate, forests, minerals.

3. Evaluation:- Belief in evaluating natural opulence on the basis of utility.


<newpage>

critical materialism 85

On the basis of practical evidence indicated in the above three rules (intellectual, social, natural rules)
Man is successful in creating a humane society, that is, in creating a united society.

For physical activities, chemical activities on this earth; chemical activity, physical
Complementary to the activities, this is clear. The proof of sublimation theory can be seen in the present only.
It is found that two physical poles of different species such as one burning - one burning compound method
On this earth, more than one physical element is mixed in acid and alkali in water. their
Staying present can be seen through music. This is the proof of sublimation. such chemical splendor
In the sequence, many types of rasa splendor are seen spread in solid, liquid and rare forms also. like, water solid
Ice is visible in form, water is visible in liquid form and steam remains in vapor form i.e. in rare form. This 
It is also found to be complete juice and mixed juice. This sublimity in existence itself
Are proportional. This means that every chemical substance on this earth, every species
In what proportion the chemical substance has to be prepared, it became clear in this supplementary method sequence. Origin of Complementary Method
Things are physical things only. The basic form of physical objects is atoms.

The complete creations in existence, whether any earth is rich or not rich in the creation of complete creations, this is
It is seen that the earth along with its atmosphere is expressed in the sequence of physical-chemical composition.
Seem to be happening. In all these, atoms of all species are prepared by the method of complementation. Physical
The basic richness of creation is atoms of different species. The species of atoms after their preparation
It is evident on the basis of numerical fractions contained in the atom, and is currently proven. Like- this
All the types of atoms that have been established in the earth as a tradition, all of them are natural in mutuality.
Is. As a result of this happening, atoms of different species in the state of molecules, in the state of bodies composed of molecules
The process of influencing and living together continues to occur continuously.

It is proved that various atoms and molecules are reflected in each other and are affected by the effects.
All these types of effects are proved in the form of heat and motion, because the earth itself is a source of heat and motion.
As obvious as the speed. The environment that this earth has created within itself i.e. the natural environment of this earth
Physical-chemical things, even in rare form, are seen spread all over this earth. spread this
This arrangement reveals the fact that the heat, transmission of the cosmic or infinite solar array
This earth is also proved to be a simple combination of rays and radiation. The atmosphere of this earth has the ability to


<newpage>

86 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Has been established. Entering from the atmosphere of this earth, till the solid part of this earth i.e.
The earth utilizes the heat rays till they reach there. Like- this earth heat
It maintains the condition of being digested in itself by the method of complementation, in the order of rays and rays,
So that the health of this earth can remain forever. In this way the “protection ring” of the earth is the
Is the environment. This is also the sphere of influence of this earth. Each one is complete with its environment. completeness
It means participation in the sense of completeness. The atom in existence has completeness, functionality and
Perfection of conduct is the purpose of completeness. This basic principle continuously proves complementarity. As such
Complementarity, evolution, coexistence is revealed by the spontaneous effect method.

Coexistence is the grandeur of activities taking place in the mutuality of whole things, infinite things.
Its basic form is the combined expression of the physical-chemical and conscious life nature saturated in being.
Are. The combined form of these manifestations is the present being of the infinite nature in the universal being, which is clearly
It happens. On this basis, that is, on the basis of the present, coexistence is proved. by coexistence
Or coexistence itself is present in the form of “complementarity”, “sublimation”, “system with substance”. to this
To know, to believe, to recognize, to live is the solution for, from, in humans.

The nature of complementarity can be seen in many ways. There are various numerical positions in atoms, such that
The origin of diversity lies in the ratio of atoms of two degrees and the ratio of atoms endowed with hundreds of degrees.
They themselves are certified on this earth. The simple function of coexistence is the proof of proportionality. Thus
The ratio of atomic species among them is naturally the proof of its ultimate duration - sublimation.
Process. When all types of atoms are prepared in an earth or how many atoms are there in any one earth?
The type of atoms required is determined clearly in the queue of hungry atoms and indigestion.
It happens. As long as one remains hungry, the number of particles keeps increasing and the number of indigestion increases.
Till the end, the atom works to satisfy its hunger. Beginning and end of indigestion
Erosion of fragments is found between. Erosion continues. In the same process and new numerical
(New means numerical, as distinct from those that remain) A possibility of the formation of an atom is created
remains, and there remains a possibility of decayed atomic fragments being absorbed into the hungry atom. This 
In sequence, up to the point of sublimation, the essential species of atoms are established. any
Only after the earth becomes rich in physical things, physical things become ready for chemical activity.


<newpage>

critical materialism 87

Are there. By then even the solid object acquires its own form. resulting from chemical substances
Splendor becomes glorious through solid, liquid and rare processes. Cells in the order of solid composition of a chemical object
The creation of and the creation of the form of Prana Sutra is a historical work at the root of chemical glory. the same
The history of chemical energy and splendor begins from this point. meaning of beginning in those lands
Is about to be started or established. All these activities remain eternally present in existence.

In the course of chemical-physical combined grandeur, entire creations become real and are real. these creations
It also remains established in the form of living beings and human bodies. This analysis exists naturally.
are expressions. In the present existence itself is the entire object of philosophy in, through, and visible to man. seer sahaj
Nature itself exists in the form of a conscious entity. The awakened life in the form of consciousness is the awareness and
Experientially, existence is able to express, communicate and illuminate philosophy and life wisdom.

In order to present the evidence of awakening of life, there is a need for knowledge of life, philosophy of existence.
gets created. This necessity and inevitability is contained in the coexistence formula, coexistence
Hridayangam happens. Being Hridayangam means being assured of life as a concept of understanding. His
Expression i.e. having faith in the spontaneous process of expression of those concepts is study.

Such faith is possible in life only when the human being lives in the system and participates in the overall system.
The process continues to unfold. Otherwise one is found to remain confused. manifest as chaos
are the result of that confusion. Chaos is the form of suffering of mankind, because the understanding of chaos
There is equal pain. Whenever human beings suffer, by studying them we find that there is chaos.
It is because of his understanding that he continues to suffer. The understanding and pain of chaos in expectation of order
The process remains bound.

Its practical form - the condition of a man having fever is disorganization, the condition of breaking arms and legs
There is chaos. The situation of debate is chaos and the result is pain. debate only in humans
It is effective when both parties are wrong or one party is definitely wrong. debate in this situation
Can happen. If both the parties are right, then there would be no dispute. its location
But there is mutual trust and united commitment towards the solution. Evidence of this in some dimensions
Have been established. In this sequence, it also becomes clear that at the core of the debate, at least one side
Mistakes always remain. The basic form of error is confusion. The function of illusion is overvaluation, devaluation and any


<newpage>

88 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Instead of one thing, another thing has to be understood. Snake and rope can be seen as examples of this.
Can. The trouble caused by mistaking a snake for a rope or mistaking a rope for a snake is self-evident.
Considering iron as gold and gold as iron are the problems of overvaluation and devaluation.
Thus, in all these three situations, humans make mistakes. Self remains troubled, as a result the environment
And creates problems in nature. Because he distributes whatever he has. This
By looking at the types, one can also understand the fact that humans can be seen in only two situations - that is
Confusion and confusion. Only a confused human being can manifest as chaos.

Chaos is interpreted as three frenzies. hypnotic mania in humans, profit mania,
It is surveyed in the form of orgasm and sensual pleasure. Oppositional frenzy in the form of treason, rebellion and war
Is surveyed in. The nature of these six types of madness is visible. Under its influence everyone including the doer
Appears as chaos. Chaos is basically confusion. To conduct such survey only
It is possible when humans are helpless and the nature and authority of the system is with at least one human being.
yes. According to human history, this event was eagerly awaited. This can be explained in this way
It is possible that humans, despite being crazy, are responsible for the chaos that occurred as a result of these frenzies.
Suffering came along with understanding. Even if this does not happen in all, in most people there is chaos.
There is pain. With this survey, it is also seen that our art, education are responsible for these maniacs.
And the system of governance has become helpful. There is no imagination for alternative so
There seems to be no other way than to bear it forcefully. Most groaning in this position
Individuals are found on this earth.

According to the previous ideas, if there is anything opposite to the above mentioned manias, it is devotion and detachment.
Essay. These are considered sacred texts and should be propagated. As its final result, temples, mosques,
Faith became centralized towards Gurudwara, churches or places of worship. based on faith
From this, common people offered their faith to distinguished people, great men and others. even today this
If we examine it, beliefs seem like a relief compared to manias. test this thing
Has been observed. Despite this, devotion and detachment are universal in education, system, constitution and values.
It was not possible to happen.


<newpage>

critical materialism 89

Along with this, it was also seen that science education definitely came down in the education system in a universal form.
But this instrument got stuck in proof. This science education, despite being glorious in education, is not meaningful in practice.
Could not be done, like - not supported or certified in rituals, systems, constitutions and human natural behavior.
found to be. The only argument that can be made in this is that according to physiologists, humans got help from this.
Is. Matters related to body and health started with humans only. It has the same state-of-the-art technology, equipment and
Increasing the average age of humans due to efforts including technology is not a major issue. In response, chaos
A human being appears to be affected. The main effects of chaos are three hysterical hypnotic and three
Mania is found to be contradictory which has been mentioned above.

In the form of alternative, that is, in the alternative of chaos, there is order. existential anthropocentric thinking
System- Universal system, existence innate system, coexistence innate system, chemical-physical
Creation is a spontaneous system, development is a spontaneous system, life is a spontaneous system and life awakening is a spontaneous system.
Makes it clear. The aim of coexistence is to make it accessible to study. In “Coexistenceism”
“Solutionary Materialism” is a treatise.

Overall, the combined name of the system sources is – Samadhan. The glorious form of this name is also in human form.
Is certified. Its form is a complete concept towards perfection. The concept itself is philosophy and knowledge.
Is. Knowledgeable conduct lies in philosophy and validation. The grandeur of conduct is order. the arrangement is simple
Grandeur is tradition. Tradition's innate splendor is perfection itself and its continuity.

Coexistence through physical and chemical activities naturally gives rise to order and solution.
It is clear to publish. All things are evident in their co-existence due to their indivisibility, such as
Infinite atoms, infinite molecules, infinite creation and infinite life are filled with all-pervading existence. hence active
Yes, coexistence as a “system with substance” is inherently glorious. In this sequence, everything other than human
Nature itself is interpreted as a “system with substance” in coexistence. human culture system
Is. As a result, every human being has the right to live intelligently. but at the same time
There is also a responsibility to understand the system. Tradition is the source of wisdom. In this sequence, profit maniacs,
“Orgasmic” as an alternative to sensual, erotic study arrangements and undertakings.
The alternative to “psychology” is “human conscious psychology”, sensual social consciousness or “luxurious
In place of “Sociology”, the alternative is “Behavioral Sociology”. Similarly “profit-oriented economics”


<newpage>

90 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It has been natural for the “recirculating economy” to be recognized as an alternative to the economy, because
Most of the human beings suffer from the pain caused by madness or from the pain of disorders caused by madness.
Have been victimized. Only those who are driven to unconsciousness by delusion will not be able to understand this pain.
There will be less people also.

Therefore, by adopting these arrangements in education, humanization of education will be possible. such periodic
Economic thinking, behavioral sociology and human consciousness psychology to be endowed with innate opulence.
The need for solution materialism, practical democracy and experiential spiritualism,
It is essential, which has been clarified earlier. All these have become available. To achieve these six arrangements
For the presentation of existential philosophy, knowledge of life and humane conduct in a simple form, intermediary philosophy.
Has been propounded. Which itself is called “Philosophy of Human Behavior”, “Philosophy of Human Action”, “Philosophy of Human Practice” and
It is an expression of “philosophy of human experience”. On the basis of this philosophy, debates and scriptures were published. This
The resolution to dedicate to human tradition is self-inspired. At the core of this research, the understanding of disorder
The main reason has been to remove the pain I was suffering from.

System coexistence is a natural expression. This existence is natural. existence always coexistence
As is current. Coexistence itself is explained and expressed in the form of system. system and its
Man remained confused about integrity, hence it was inevitable for man to remain a victim. hence the chaos
Man has understood this as pain since ancient times. hope and aspiration of human system
We have been accepting changes on this basis only. The various histories of mankind highlight this fact.
Is. In this time or in this era of struggle, humans have resorted to treason, rebellion,
Exploitation and war have been accepted as fixed tools.

In today's situation, this seems to be the definition of convenience. what mankind considers a convenience
Its origin is the Dhruva collection. Convenience and enjoyment depend only on collection. This is completely in urban life.
It appears like this. Good roads in the city, good house, good car, good medicine, good toys.
And all the modern, state-of-the-art home decor and things considered useful inside the house, like fridge,
Cooler, air conditioner, mixer, grinder and all arrangements for decorating the terrace, shining bathroom,
Bedroom, dry room and kitchen have been considered as the place to prove these facilities. with
TV, VCR, radio, photographic cameras, tape recorders are considered for home entertainment.


<newpage>

critical materialism 9

The expression of convenient happiness are cameras, video cameras, big albums. considered these as achievements
goes. All these facilities have been achieved considering them ideal.

According to those who are dedicated to government service, we should do whatever service we do, however we do it, if the service is
If we can remain faithful to the controlling law in our actions, then the result of any action, its responsibility,
Should not be on any government officer or employee - this is mainly the trend of convenient job.
She is seen doing it. The diet of those who are not in the grip of addiction is similar to snacks. Who
Those people who indulge in adultery, adultery, drug addiction, gambling and various other activities,
Looking at their dietary habits, it appears that they eat too much. Simplicity in the diet
Believe in living in. People living in greater simplicity have also been seen. at least home
Keep the lights on, eat minimally and dress normally, watch TV. Appropriate programs while living, which
They believe in the sacred scriptures and watch such programmes. Any of these opportunists in government service
They are seen participating. In such a situation, there is such a thing as maximum similarity, something like
After classifying them as illustrated above, it becomes clear that-

4. Convenience person who indulges in things, addictions.

A opportunistic person who indulges in convenience does not indulge in addictions.

A opportunistic person is involved in collecting.

Convenience people are seen as being indulged in things and addictions.

In today's situation, addiction sites are created in an attractive, hypnotic manner, with the aim of making people addicted.
That is, all kinds of means and achievements to arouse and intensify sexual ecstasy.
Have made it known to the people. In today's situation, addiction business is considered to be the most profitable business.
Is. Many countries have accepted it as constitutional. Constitution of some countries to accept its validity
Are thinking. This is today's situation. Addiction has also become a norm for today's humans. This
The establishment of addictions has been seen in this opportunistic urban life. By this method i.e. convenienceist
There is no place found in the law where participation in the system is visible.

The entire source for convenience is this earth. Making the materials obtained from the earth convenient, its technology
The technology practice for the process has been established on this planet. Earth today in large numbers
The goods are to be converted into convenient goods, all such goods should be available to all human beings, so that

ri 7


<newpage>

92 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

If you think about it, the more convenient things are available in today's situation, the more number of all these things are available today.
There are humans on earth, not everyone can get the same number of manufactured items.

There are two main reasons for this-

, There are not enough things on this earth to provide every person or every family with everything they can imagine.
Can get facilities as per requirement. As much as today's time to create these objects of imagination
There is technology, it creates a need at least billions of times more. billions of times like this
It is not possible for technology to be completely sourced from Earth. This earth will be small for this. From this
The earth will not be able to absorb the pollution that occurs. That's why reconsider this
It is necessary to do.

2. The formula of convenience, collection, indulgence cannot become the basis of explanation and purpose. said
In two points only the amount of facility and the glimpse of the system or the criterion of the system.
The same conclusion emerges. Apart from this, for the atrocities that humans have done to the earth,
The business of making people proficient in crimes has been made, to solve them, to solve them.
Some solution is also needed.

“Solutionary Materialism” is presented as a solution. Convenience according to the work form of this decade
The amount of things that are taken out of the earth for the things that are considered necessary for enjoyment.
Even more items are being converted into war materials. some country
At present, the number of items for public convenience is less, more than this is used for war material.
Must be doing. If we look at these situations, it becomes clear that the forests, minerals, resources located in the earth
Or how many days does it take for the liquid to be filled. From all this we can conclude that every two generations
Only till now will all these substances be found in the earth. This lets us know how much we share with future generations.
Committing a crime? Are you messing with or helping? This also needs to be assessed.
“What should we do with naturalness?” The balance of nature is achieved in the form of seasons for this earth.
Are. Every human being is able to see this. Hence, human participation in the system itself and the overall system.
Is necessary. The art of living and thinking style for human beings keeping in mind the balance of seasons in this earth.
And developing the power of experience has become an essential condition. Its basis is “coexistence
authentication required." It is on the basis of co-existential ideas that the power of experience is proved in human behavior.


<newpage>

critical materialism 93

Can do . At the same time, participation in the system and the system can be proved in every human behavior.
Could. And it can prove solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence in the present. This only
This has also been the intention and expectation of the human race.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

94 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter 7

Consciousness, Consciousness and Consciousness

It has been made clear that the basis of the ideas of “Solutionary Materialism” is coexistence.
Coexistence is basically existence itself, coexistence itself is present and eternally effective in its essence and is eternal.
There is coexistence as a system. Existence is ever present. This is the eternal splendor of coexistence – this
It becomes clear. The nature of co-existence is the inanimate-conscious nature united in being, which itself is the state of matter,
The human being situated in this earth in the form of life state, living state and knowledge state is transformed into a human being, from, for
Is visible. By reducing or increasing any of these conditions, coexistence becomes effortless completeness, completeness and
It is not possible to even imagine its continuation. Darshan and knowledge are the proof of Drishtapada and along with Tatva
Participation in the system and system, grandeur including vision, this possibility is appropriate in human beings. more than
The need for knowledge, philosophy and conduct is not created, how can it be solved according to rationalism on this issue?
To understand why it is bad to expect more conditions to be created, some vague questions like this
Can be done.

Questions become unclear because the ultimate destination of human hopes, aspirations and desires is
All-round solutions and authenticity. This is the proof of life awakening. last wish of life
There is awakening. The ultimate desire of human beings is holistic solution and authenticity. Awakening from solution,
The success of human tradition lies in proving the solution through awakening. This success is the human system and
Publication is the key to participation in the overall system. makes this truth or evidence clear
Authenticity, self-discipline, spontaneous expression are the highest level of awakening. This is proof of freedom from illusion. it
This is a clear proof of fearlessness. More than this, human beings have imagination, thoughtfulness and willfulness.
The pace and expectations are not up to the mark. Therefore, it is considered an object worthy of continued glory in the last meaningful tradition.
Accepting it as good is a necessity and imperative, because human beings accept the good.
That is why we are bound to accept it.

Knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, conduct full of humanity, knowledge itself is the form of awakening and its glory.
Is. Man's natural refuge is human hair. Every human being can test this for himself.


<newpage>

critical materialism 95

How humanity is life and soul. This test has revealed that humanity (human
The system formula for in, from, for is the form of life saving. Awakening of the innate life force in another language
Are forms. Solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence are the forms of this inspiration. In this way the inspiration of humanity
And the causality or salvation is clear. It is only through inspiration that inspiration becomes strong and fruitful. inspirations
To be fruitful is the satisfaction of life. In this way, Traan and Prana, working in a complementary manner, it
Proof is proved in itself, by itself, for itself. This is life, harmony among the ten simple activities,
There is evidence of solution and order. In this way the solutions to life in coexistence are easily proven.
The possibility of this happening is clear and it has been proven.

Solution, tradition, authenticity and tradition are the only glory in humans. In such a simple tradition, every human being
By being dedicated to such a tradition, a person who has attained supreme knowledge, supreme philosophy and supreme conduct, is
All people can achieve and behave. On this basis, in human tradition, solution, prosperity,
Abhay, coexistence is certified. What one person proves about coexistence, every person
Can certify. A person who behaves socially and professionally on the basis of “Param-Triad”
It proves self-reliance, every person can prove it. which a person has in himself
Trust, respect for excellence, balance between talent and personality, certified on the basis of “Param-Traya”
Does it, every person can prove it. This is the sanskara-related dignity and glory of human tradition.
And there is splendor.

Now in this sequence i.e. in the sequence mentioned above, some more stages of existence are added or the fifth

Why didn't you imagine that by joining the stage, the path to all welfare would be paved? In response to this

Made it clear that:-

4. Every human wants to be awakened.

2. Every human can adopt the “Param-Traya” method to become awakened.

3. Every person can participate in the system only with awareness and authenticity.
Is.

4. Awakening in every human being through “Param-Traya” method is appropriate.

Therefore, some further state will arise, at that time i.e. after an unimaginably long time, all good will happen.
The day will come, till then fulfill your wish. This type of subjective method of crimes


<newpage>

96 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

The stubbornness in adopting the law and accepting it as legal should be abandoned. infected with humanity
It is necessary and the awakened tradition should be established. In which humanistic education, humanistic education
Constitution, family based self-rule system in which everyone's participation is the best situation,
There is evidence of speed. It is expedient for humans, hence the natural consent to convert into humanity.
It is present in most human beings. To get rid of education and tradition based on chaos till now
There has been no option, that is why most human beings have been struggling. Looking for an option like this
Yes, He has arrived and there is no need to wait for any stage.

It can be imagined that a condition can be reduced, but it is not possible to reduce it.
Basically existence itself is the form of all four states, all four states have been realized on this earth. In this
The entire scene, the seer and the possibility of vision i.e. the functioning of vision have all become possible. That’s it
No, it has become indivisiblely expedient.

The idea of ​​separating any one of these, if-

4. If we separate the material state then this earth will not be visible.

2. If we imagine separating life, forests, wild animals and humans will not be visible.

3. Imagine separating living beings, in that case there will be many types of diseases and disturbances,
Elements that destroy plants and make humans sick will be created.

4. Imagine separating humans, only then will the grandeur of the observer position in existence be seen on this earth.
No.

The combination or arrangement of all auspicious, all auspicious and holistic expression is the holistic event. such an incident

In this prosperous earth “human is the only seer with experience.” To enrich the position of the seer is awakening.

It is only through awakening that human tradition becomes a system and it becomes glorious in the form of a system. That's why human

Tradition needs to be awakened, not reduced to any status. reduce a situation

But all good cannot be imagined, that is why man's innate glory lies in awakening only. of human tradition

The necessary inspiration for awakening has been provided. One part of it is “Solutionary

Materialism”.

It is only through awakening that man is able to recognize consciousness (God), consciousness, conscious things and knows and believes.
and its elements prove the point. Basically Consciousness, consciousness, physical-chemical


<newpage>

Critical Materialism 9a

Things are indivisible present. The basic element of indivisibility is the continuity of the entire nature in consciousness (being).
Are only. Being powerful is known as consciousness. Consciousness is called God, God, Beyond, Knowledge, Comprehensive, Truth.
Have also wanted to indicate by names etc. Brahma] was done to show the unmanifested or the consciousness
All the efforts made to explain the unexpressed and the confusion in the Vandramaya, Chetna and Brahmoist traditions
Created. Whereas in every interaction only power was seen. This power exists naturally
It has remained the same as it is at present. If we look at power in the present, it becomes clear that it is everywhere,
Always present, transparent and transcendent. This thing can be named Brahma, Consciousness etc. present
In this we will remember to indicate the existence of power by these names.

In existence itself, the conscious entity (life) and the inanimate nature are included, that is, they are connected. This
The issue has been clarified earlier also. The inanimate and animate nature appears drenched, submerged and surrounded by power.
Is. Transmission of power from the wet is proved. This is the proof that the object has energy and strength.
Prosperity is certified. In this way, man can understand that everything is endowed with strength.
Is. Existence or consciousness means equal energy, everything is surrounded, immersed, wet. it
Situation and movement are visible to every person. In this way, this thing is also known as consciousness and Brahma.
(Reality) has been pointed out. In this way, consciousness and Brahma, which we have been considering as unmanifested,
It is not latent, it is always expressed and it is always present. Such consciousness or Brahman is all-pervasive. wider than before
The name was given. Whatever you understand in the sense of comprehensiveness, whatever you understand, at present it is like this
We can understand that human innate imagination,
Karma is not able to result in the yoga of freedom. It has not been done yet. Therefore it should be widely
The name was given or it was named comprehensively. There are infinite units contained in power itself.
No matter how many people are seen, they all appear immersed and surrounded by power. units that look like this
No matter how many counts, there is still more left to count. That is why units are named “infinite”.
Has been given.

It is also clear from this that it is humans who do the work of measuring, weighing and counting. This human seer
It is a common symptom of being in office. To measure, weigh more than what is required and required
Impossible. This also makes it clear that human innate needs are limited. more likely
Is. Look at this fact in front of you. “Needs are infinite, resources are limited” – such that the present


<newpage>

98 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

It is being taught in economics – to what extent this is true, to what extent this is true, that will also be understood.
Therefore, existence is ever present. Out of nature imbued with existence, only conscious nature is life. in life itself
Consciousness is proved. Proof of consciousness in human beings in the form of knowing, believing, recognizing, living
Is. This is evident from different types in every person. Life is the splendor of Chaitanya Pada. Consciousness, it awakens
Life is a simple expression. In the sense of its significance and completeness - to know, to accept, to recognize, to fulfill.
Is certified as. Astu, altruism and fullness of action (humanity and God)
Humanity) and conduct to prove fully awakened perfection, in the awakened human tradition, from, to
It is easily possible and necessary.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism 99

Chapter - 8

Society, Religion (System) and State

Analysis of past and review of present :-

Religion:- Ever since idealistic thought has been dominant on this earth, according to history the state has been a
There is a program going on. The basis of religion was idealism, sacred texts (God's words) were the basis. these words
Most of all, God was the source of faith on the basis of assurance regarding grace, welfare and salvation. also on this issue
The belief was formed that God himself is determined to destroy the sinners in the words of the holy scriptures.
Are. Salvation of the virtuous was said to be one of his important tasks. People liked this thing,
People also accepted it. The noteworthy thing is that the teachings for virtue given in various sacred texts
When he left, he became different in form. Whatever activities are said in various forms for virtue, which
Confirmation is found in the ancient holy texts, till today we have been considering the same as religion. human virtuous
They debate on the basis of various ways of becoming. Ultimately in the dock of bitterness, wickedness
Let's come. This, according to history and according to the present, is the main point of debate.
Be the basis. What is more, the important raw material for building “walls of our own people”,
It was in the diversity of these virtues that we have been considering it as a sanskar till today.

In all religious traditions there are certain symbols like:-

, On the basis of skin color or hair.

2. Other items, whether medicinal items or vegetable items, should be in their original shape and no
Wood, metal, stone, clothes – we made them in definite shape (idols etc.) and wore them.

3. People living in one religious tradition accept the diet which the other one considers prohibited.
Are.

4. On the basis of these, the form called sacred place, the place made of soil, stone, brick, metals, etc.
Let's tell.

People of different religions offer prayers in their own ways in their respective recognized holy places.
The sacred nature of all these prayers is that there may be blessings from the mysterious God, there may be welfare of all, sinners.


<newpage>

00 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

And the wicked should be destroyed. Those praying present their own desire for salvation. Among these things also
It is strange to see that in a place that is holy for any religion, people of other religions come to that place.
Upon arrival, the place itself is believed to have become impure. The notable thing among these is that serial no.
The signs of skin and hair formed on the basis mentioned in () are visible only to men.
Is. Along with this, the designs made on clothes in various ways, on the basis of religious symbols, are also used among men.
Gets to see. Women especially consider things made of metal, stone, plants, objects which are sacred.
Whatever is acceptable according to the scriptures, we wear it (like garland etc.). These scriptures tell us that this
To wear it or not to wear it. Women, clothes as per the permission of religious texts and as per customs and traditions.
She is seen wearing. Fifty years ago the dress of certain religious communities looked different, now
The attire is seen based on the preferences of the people. Some people are fanatic about wearing clothes.
I am also there. Accordingly, this fanaticism now seems likely to become flexible.

Today's situation combined with the changes that have taken place in history and human traditions so far
On seeing, it becomes clear that following some tradition (Rudi means cognizance i.e. knowing, believing,
Recognizing, these three things may not happen, only accepted. On the basis of these stereotypes not being logical
causes internal contradiction and external opposition) expressed in words, literature, art and food habits
Expression of worship, recitation, methods of prayer, commitments to an object or position, only then changing
Was seen when :-

4. Contradiction to anyone who has behaved on the basis of conventions (community, religion and state constitution)
Lets do it.

2. Community traditions are passed down from generation to generation with great faith and are passed on with condolences.
Is expressed even in moments. In which there is acceptance towards such stereotypes in the same community
There may be a contradiction.

3. One's commitment to an authority (such as one granted by the top person in government power)
If there is a conflict between rights and officers, including exercise of rights, distribution of rights).

4. There is commitment of ownership of an object between more than one person.


<newpage>

critical materialism 04

In such situations, when there are contradictions, commitments, beliefs, conventions are decentralized for change.
Favorable circumstances are created. We are quick to identify points of change.
When we accept the need then it becomes clear that -

, Change of power, transfer, decentralization – these were thought of.

2. Conversion of religion: There were two types of expectations in the human mind.

That (one) is to abandon the traditions of one religion and accept the traditions of another religion.

(2) In the order of rationality of all those conventions which do not come under the test of logic or their
The futility should become clear to the human mind.

With this kind of desire, many yeti, sati, saints, ascetics, great men, preachers, preachers of truth,
Propagators kept trying in the form of propaganda literature, kept trying tirelessly. The remarkable thing here is that
Wherever there were contradictions, there was some relaxation in the conventions, then the good intentions of these propaganda were successful.
Let's assume it happened. When there was a relaxation of traditions as a result of conflict within a certain religious community,
When a community is surrounded by opposition from outside, that is, from communities different from it, then those communities or that
The stereotypes in the community become stronger.

In the state also, this can be tested in such a way that whenever there is contradiction among the countrymen, then
In the country also the desire to have many plots of land or many countries is expressed. When there is external opposition
That is, when a situation of attack from outside countries arises, then there is a threat to the integrity of the country or the border security.
People become committed. Such incidents have been repeated many times by humans on this earth. Now
Change of power, decentralization of power and transfer of power are discussed again and again in every religious throne and royal throne.
Change with transfer of power and decentralization with change, transfer with decentralization
It has been happening.

According to history, the nature of this incident has been seen in different forms-

, The person in power was forcefully removed and someone else took over. betrayal in this
Various configurations were observed. Removed against the will of the public - through deceit, fraud, treachery
It was given and the other one sat down.


<newpage>

02 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

2. Arrogance in the form of betrayal, hypocrisy comes to power on the basis of public assurances
That person has been removed.

3. He ascended the throne under hereditary rights. sitting on the throne in most such incidents
The man has started dying, is preparing to die or has died. In such a situation, by hereditary method,
Incidents of sitting in the saddle were observed.

4. The man sitting on the throne happily made another person sit.

According to history, various sequences of events are available to remember. Power through these four methods
Has been seen to be transferred and power has been transferred. person in power who sits on the throne
Remains in its original form, its original glory, its original monstrosity and greatest convenience. Power
Centralized governance has come from sovereignty or monopoly.

The meaning of power centered governance is that the Constitution is made through both written and oral methods.
To be followed is the meaning of the state, that is, it means grandeur. The meaning of state power is to obey
In case of such a situation, he should have the right to use stick, gun, cannon, projectile-deflection, killing-destructive work.
Such a fundamental right is assumed to be with the person sitting on the throne or in the human being. these
It was seen in the tradition to be in the form of a position or name allocated from. Power given to them, natural right
This is also the meaning of. Public life, public work, public behavior have to be done with one's own responsibility. As yet
No such power-centered government has been seen in which education and system based on the study of human beings has been achieved.
Has provided any guidance in making conservation law accessible to the public? There is no evidence of this in history and
Not able to be seen and understood at present.

The issue of centralized governance and decentralization was heard again and again. of the monopolistic throne
Such things also came up at times when decisions were taken jointly with more than one person and power was gained easily.
Allocation of rights took place orally and in written form. Rights to intimidate, threaten, assault
The practice of allotment continued. All such work had to be done with the common man only and till date it has been
Have been doing. Currently doing the same. A much larger number of tasks have to be performed, such as border security.
And preparations for war. This is what has been seen till date. It was also considered a form of decentralization of power.
Is.


<newpage>

critical materialism 403

After this, the practice of ascending the throne with the amazing power of mandate in a democratic manner started.
This is already the form of power in all countries, big and small. orders of these public representatives
There remains natural permission to follow the Constitution. Wherever the republican system is effective
It has happened, there and there the existence of written constitution has been found. public opinion in republican governance
Care is taken. Such promotions are promoted with special care.

Currency:- Currency was considered the cultural basis, economic basis and political basis for republicanism.
Is. The political goal is to transfer power. Identification of cultural basis Dress (what kind of clothes
Wear) make-up, dance, marriage ceremony was considered. Its variations were accepted as valid
Is. Like, highest income, lowest income or highest collection (capital) money, least capital money. of capital
Form is currency. The basic form of currency is paper. The basic form of paper is bamboo and wood. what it means
What has happened is that humans write something on bamboo wood, its name is Mudra. of the one who wrote to me
The heart looks like a river. On some pieces of paper 100, on some 1, on some lakh, crore written
What happened can be seen. That money is not seen as a necessary thing for human beings. accepted this
It is said that goods will be obtained from money.

In this belief it is clear that the symbol of an object is money. The memorable sutra is that “symbol is not achieved.”
And achievements are not symbols.” This means that no matter how or how much every symbol changes,
Could. As said earlier, “one” can also be written on a piece of paper and
But also a billion. To polarize it, each country has developed a need with foreign countries.
felt. It is assumed to be some kind of metal object (like gold). In this method those who have
There is more of a commodity, that commodity (i.e. gold) polarizes the currency, the more of the commodity (i.e. gold, silver)
The number of letter currency drawn on the base looks lower and it looks more valuable. where
Commodities (gold, silver) have become scarce in the country or where commodities like gold will keep on decreasing, such a currency fund can be created.
The number of proposed letter money has increased and will continue to increase.

In this way, as the base commodity of the monetary fund (gold) decreased in the country, the other items also decreased in the same proportion.
The base item of the country's monetary fund has increased. In the same proportion, it is from countries with deficit funds.
Buys items. Countries with more funds sell in the same ratio and duration. currency like this
The things which have been considered as treasury on the basis of treasury i.e. symbol currency, those who have more


<newpage>

04 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It has happened (like gold) that it continues to increase and those who have less funds, their funds have decreased.
It has to keep on decreasing. As a result, the number sequence on symbol coins has to keep increasing. As a result, in the country
The price of goods is increasing and the price of goods for foreign countries is decreasing. symbol like this
Currency and base are the illusory net woven in the monetary fund method.

This clearly shows that a country with more wealth has to become richer because as it is believed
That money creates wealth, whereas that is not the case. Whatever happens in this sequence is exploitation. More
For a country with funds, all the countries with less funds have agreed to increase their funds.
This is the glory of temptation, on the other hand, the same funds are used for the loan of a place called the World Bank.
In this form, maximum allocation will be made to those countries only. To accept or not to accept the conditions of countries with strong funds.
In such a situation, those people cannot get loans from the World Bank or the World Fund unless their conditions are met.
These do not fulfill. In this way, along with that, the form of fear automatically presents itself before the world.
Paid.

The noteworthy thing is that some republican countries have the right to economic, social and political equality.
Announce or give assurance. On the other hand, to protect all cultures constitutionally
Are. As a result, cultural equality goes sour. Vision to eliminate economic inequality
It is in the constitutions. In countries that have more money, it is likely to double. That
The day his money doubles, he tries to double it from that very moment. value in today's situation
Lo, one person has one crore, another has one rupee. one rupee person gives his one rupee
Let's go to double. It takes more time than that. In the same way, a person with Rs 1 crore can
He goes to do the digging, that also takes time. The man with crores of rupees succeeded in doubling the rupees.
It happens, something fails. One also succeeds or fails in the same way. about time
The same can also be thought and seen. A person earning one rupee gets tax of two rupees.
Let's say it took him two months. In the same way, a person with Rs 1 crore can make Rs 2 crore quickly. them too
Took a month. What is the nearest point between these two, keeping the order of precedence? Can be seen-
The answer to this question has become inaccessible to the common man and mathematics has also become useless. like this
Rich countries are also with poor countries. What is the significance in this? This should be asked. significance in poor countries
Only in the hands of a few people sitting on the throne of that country, according to the poor, there are innumerable mathematical resources.


<newpage>

critical materialism 405

According to this, billions of rupees can be seen. What is the advantage of rich countries, this is the advantage of rich countries
It means that all the goods from all the countries can be brought cheaply and made available to our countrymen as per their need.
Will get it done. We will preserve all the commodities and forest minerals of our country. Forest minerals of all countries are exhausted
After completion, we will use our country as per requirement. This kind of understanding would have been obvious
Is.

Thus, “a poor country should become a rich country and a poor man should become rich” is only a
The language is tempting. Only greed can be created in the country and among humans. greed always
Being trapped paves the way for being stuck and poor. Hence, the day is a living proof of global economic thinking.
Every day we have to get stuck, it doesn't have to be solved. There is only one reason for this - that is the seal or symbol.
currency. This is the glory of fear and temptation.

Solution:- Society and religion are inseparable present with the state. Society and state with religion
The present is indivisible. State and religion are inseparable from society. human religion in its original form
There is an all-round solution, for this a family-based self-rule system is proposed in human tradition. Whose
'Fun solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence are easy proofs. State, society and religion are different
Can't happen. We can talk in many ways in the form of language, but what is there is only that which exists.
The existence of humans has already become clear. The form of human being as autonomous, as family,
Can be recognized as village and world family. Basically human identity i.e. individual identity
Do it first or recognize the world human first.

Their identification shows that first of all it is very important to recognize a sensible human being.
It also makes sense that every human is as diverse as the size. basis of human identity
What will happen? This question naturally arises in thinking people. On finding the answer
It turns out that the identity of every thing depends on its conduct. Yoga, combination of conducts,
Identified on the basis of separation. Union with each other is yoga. Meaningful yoga in the sense of completeness,
There are coincidences. Disjunction is that the combination and conjunction have been left out from what was already there. thus dissociative behavior
No society is formed on the basis of. Now comes the matter of coincidence and yoga. which till now
Whatever is visible in the form of man, family and community, all this is visible in the form of yoga only,
Not as a coincidence. In a state less than yoga, i.e. in a state of separation, man is unable to become clear.


<newpage>

06 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

At least on the basis of yoga, it is possible to recognize the behaviors. of these basic facts
Testing becomes possible on this basis. Basically, the universal form is evident in humane conduct.

To be able to see human conduct, its universality in action, only on the basis of the universal system.
It is possible, that is the main point. Till now this issue has been under research, now
There is a possibility of human accessibility. Such a universal system can be declared universal only after research.
Your attention is being sought, to test conduct. understood the universal system as
It has been said that human can be recognized as family human, village family human, world family human.
Is. The main thing is that the identity and proof of a human being lies in the family only. At least two families,
Or consists of more than two persons. Basically the world family is known as a united society.
Only the world family system can be certified as a family-based self-rule system. hence human
Before recognizing a human being in the family, it becomes necessary to define a human being, on the basis of which only the undivided
Society, universal system are explained.

The definition of human is proved only by the study of human being as it is – “The denial can be realized.
The doer is a human being who is optimistic and certifies mental health (happiness). every human definition
To be certified as an intuitive explanation, it has to be autonomous and humane in conduct. This
To realize the refusal in this way, the common aspirations i.e. shelter, food and adornment are fulfilled.
related items and equipment, and ambitions i.e. television viewing, teleauditing, telecommunication related items and
The devices have been seen as personifying. Mental health means resolved and certified.
The optimism of the doer, despite being natural, has not been clearly evidenced in the tradition.
Although every person expects happiness, peace, satisfaction and joy. This is the optimist of mental health

There is testimony of existence.

Mental health is the satisfaction point of human natural awakening. As long as human beings do not understand justice, religion and truth,
Unless one experiments, one cannot verify the proof of awakening. Origin of being deprived of awakening
The reason is the still confused traditions and beliefs based on it.

“Every person can use the views of justice, religion and truth.” This is the awakened tradition. confused community
Tradition traps every person within some limits. As a result, I found myself suffering from narrow mindedness.
goes. The views of justice, religion and truth are easily found to be the biggest and the biggest. Like, every person,


<newpage>

critical materialism 07

Can recognize his relations with every person, can fulfill the values ​​inherent in them,
Can evaluate. This is what is inherent in every human being for the possibility of immensity and movement.
Maintains the wall between own and stranger and between familiar and unfamiliar. Due to these reasons human tradition
Due to lack of wisdom, justice is not able to use broad vision easily.

Addressing visitors in one's own style with appropriate age can be seen
Is. To see the person with whom he is addressed maintaining the same values.
gets to. In this, humans of any age group can do such test on this issue. visitor
According to the age group of the people, it should be done as a casual address with some relation.
Among them, there are naysayers as well as affirmative ones. Keeping these two tests in mind
If we think about it then we start gaining some more knowledge. From any child, whether small or
Big, we meet. Childishness, virginity and innate beauty remain in them, as do men of the same age group.
Who are worthy of being called grandfather, uncle, uncle and brother, under the influence of such address the person has his-
The influence of strangers does not create a barrier among such children, it becomes ineffective.

Secondly, in the situation described, there can be mutual visitors between the young, the mature and the old. such a situation
It is seen that there is a barrier between welcoming the address on the basis of one's own and another's.
Hence some people are able to welcome it, some people welcome it partially, then
Some people are not welcoming at all. These three situations are thus separated from tradition, due to the illusion of tradition.
Along with the beliefs that have come, one's own remains alien.

Like, Hinduism, Sikhism, Muslim religion, Christianity, Parsi religion, Unani religion, Harijan religion, Tribal religion
etc. and many religions have been enumerated in the same manner. Community consciousness based on many religions
Can be seen. On the basis of any one community, the belief, even if it may be in the form of a stereotype, is
After being born, everyone else naturally becomes alien to them. In this way own-stranger's
Did the affair happen with all the people or did it happen with most of the people?
Has happened. Society is only human society. “Humanity”, a tradition rich in human consciousness, is the basis of religion and state.
There is a basis. There is order in social tradition. The society is united. society is not community
Is. Community is not a monolithic society. Community systems are not universal, human beings are testimony to this.
Has been received.


<newpage>

08 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

The basic formula of a united society and universal system is only one, this is the solution. Solution-happiness.
Solution-system. Identification of relationships, fulfillment of values, evaluation process – these are the solutions. as a result
Being happy is found.

Arrangement in itself, participation in the arrangement is the solution, solution is happiness, peace, satisfaction, joy. human religion
There is only happiness. This is a sign of awakening.

Happiness and peace with justice, peace and contentment with order, and contentment and joy with experience.
Is certified in. Every human can experience it. Such a unified society and family oriented
The system can give form to behavior in the world family. Arrangement between at least 00 to 200 families
In this, i.e. between 000 to 2000 population, it can be successful through autonomous method. definition of swarajya
It is the glory of oneself, the nature of oneself is human, the thing like human is life. Address of life “self”
Or “self”. In this way, the splendor of life is the kingdom. Hence, the splendor of life – Swarajya.

The splendor of life is an expression of awakening. Awakening means holistic solution and authenticity. Its
In practice, there is prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence in family tradition. From this one family to the world family
There are things to be certified. In order to implement it, access to justice for all human beings, access to production,
Exchange accessibility is the goal. To keep it intact, education, culture, health and restraint will be easily accessible.

In order to give this the form of village self-rule, ten member families themselves became members of one family.
There will be a system to identify the representative. One member from every ten (0) families “Family Group
Will make electoral identification for the “Assembly”. In a group meeting of ten such families, one person each
Will identify through election for Gram Parivar Sabha. Ten (0) persons comprising the Gram Sabha
Will recognize the head of the meeting. The Gram Sabha will nominate the “Swarajya Karyakram Samiti” committees.
There will be five such committees-
, Education-culture committee

Justice Security Committee

production working committee

2
3. Health Restraint Committee
4
5. Exchange Fund Committee


<newpage>

critical materialism 09

All these will have their respective functions defined and explained.

The nature of the structure including all the committees in the Swaraj system mentioned above- In all the following levels, elections
Among ten persons at work, there will be one person. It is necessary to have three-tier committees up to Gram Sabha
Is. Fourth – Village Group Meeting. Fifth – Area Assembly. Sixth – Mandal Sabha. Seventh – Mandal Group Meeting.
Eighth – Main Rajya Sabha. Ninth – Principal Rajya Sabha. Tenth - Vishwa Parivar Swarajya Sabha. this method
This eliminates the possibility of money or goods being used in election work. election with money or goods
Adding the work has itself proved to be a violation of the sanctity of the election work. humans can find evidence of this
Have finished.

Family-based self-rule is an intelligent, autonomous human family. Life is full of wisdom
Knowledge is the philosophy of existence and humane conduct. At the core of implementing the system, each
There will be arrangements to make the family proficient in the knowledge of life. Detailed work, purpose of Jeevan Vidya,
The possibility, regarding accessibility, is clear in the chapter “Evolution of the atom into existence”. “Existential
“Human-centered thinking” is in the form of “mediate philosophy, co-existence”. In this the philosophy of existence is diversified
Kind of made clear.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

40 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Chapter - 9

In the view of solution materialism:

) Recognition of originality is the basis of survival

Originality has value in itself. The originality of all things has its own position, motion, position and state.
It is found to be published, communicated and expressed on the basis. existence religion is ever present, existence
Sahaj form and nature co-exist. In this way the innate originality of existence is understood.
All four states of existence are present, saturated in being. The four states are indivisible in power. That's why
Existence is the fundamental principle of everything. The religion of the material state is its existence, its nature is the process of organization and dissolution.
Are. Affirming religion including existence in life; It has an essence-killing nature. Existence in living form, including confirmation
Hope is religion. Existence, confirmation is seen in the body. Hope and religion are seen in life itself. This
In this type of living condition, it is clear that life and body are published in a combined form. nature in life
They are cruel and unkind. In the state of knowledge, happiness is found along with existence, affirmation and hope.
Existence, confirmed in the human body, is meaningful. Values ​​and happiness in life should be meaningful
Is necessary.

Being inhuman in the form of awakening by nature, human in the form of awakening and superhuman in the form of awakening perfection.
is found. It appears in a state of inhumanity in the form of humility, inferiority, cruelty and awakens
The situation shows up in the form of patience, bravery, generosity. In a state of full awareness, in the form of mercy, grace, compassion
Nature is visible in me. It is inhuman nature to be sad; Human nature is to be happy and superhumanity
It is clear that the very nature of happiness is happiness. In this way, the fundamental element of all things in existence is naturally
Can recognize people, can live as a result. The whole identity is originality and evaluation.

Such values ​​and evaluation, whether in behavior, in business, in exchange, or in nature - this
By seeing the existence of order in its natural form, it becomes clear that in the material state the nature is of organization and disintegration.
Is employed as. After disintegration of each unit, the possibilities of the organization were seen as follows.
It can be said that every atom and molecule is always trying to participate in the organization. As a result:


<newpage>

critical materialism 44

All parts get prestige in the form of atoms. Every part is included in the system only after finding itself in the organization's prestige.
Is able to prove that he is a partner. In this way, every thing in the material state is created on the basis of organization.
Or on the basis of the number of particles contained in an atom, the species, quantity and function of that atom.
We are able to recognize it and it appears to be manifesting itself. Hence, the formation in the material state
On the basis, that too the fundamentals are certified on the basis of the organization.

Originality in vital state is recognized as essence-killing nature on the basis of method of creation or
Plants continue to express their nature through essence and antidote method. This is also the nature of life cells
It is a manifestation of action itself. Some life cells digest some elements and some cells digest other elements.
Digests. In this way, basically the essence of Rasa contained in the life cells itself gets published in the form of Sarak-Marak.
Is. Essentiality means that most of the elements are favorable for human and living beings. kills- human
Adverse effects on the body and living beings, such as by digesting the chemical substance which we call poison.
There are plants kept. It is also called poisonous plant and such plants have also been identified.
Is. Similarly, poisons have also been identified in minerals. In the same sequence, poison accumulation in living beings and relatives also
The living beings and Swadajas who do this are recognised. Like dog, snake, scorpion etc. While all these
In form, they are called living beings, sweats, plants and minerals. Thus all of them are deadly things. especially
For the human body i.e. the body is suitable for protection and nutrition, its name is Sarak, its
All those things which are opposite to the protection and nourishment of the body are antidote. On this basis, in plants
Originality is recognized. Plants remain prosperous in their nature.

In life, nature is recognized as cruel and unkind. Cruelty manifested as “torture”
Are. The creatures which torment other creatures or eat meat are called cruel creatures. of cruelty
It is seen to occur in some organisms. Sometimes cruelty and sometimes even cruelty can be seen in some creatures.
In living beings, acts of para-pain can be seen being accomplished either through feeding or through fear. dogs-
The same tendency is seen in cats. In such a fearful manner, every living being suffers somewhere or the other.
What happened can be seen. In this way the suffering caused by fear becomes clear. “For food” on the tormented tiger,
This is evident in creatures like lions.

By looking at the methods of substitution (atomic formation) and organization in the state of matter, it becomes clear that the entire object
Traditions are established on the basis of results and seeds. Result seed means that atoms


<newpage>

442 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The number of fragments contained in is. This is the material result. The number of particles in these atoms
Is, on the basis of that its tradition and quantity are established. Its nutritional method is based on coexistence
But it has become clear. Its nutritional method, such as atoms being made up of two parts, atoms having two parts.
The satisfaction of species and enrichment is clear and the possibility of two fractions of atoms being
Are.

In order to digest heat, rays and radiation in the course of cosmic activities, many atoms are formed several times.
Some parts of it get extrapolated. It is formed as an atom in itself or in the form of an atom.
Are included in. There is always a possibility of formation. Hence atomic formation of two fragments
There is always a possibility of. Their traditions remain intact in all stages of existence.
There is no earth in the lowest state of matter. All four states of matter are present in the earth itself.
Get certified. In every situation, traditions are organized according to their own principles. humans only now
Till now our original tradition remains to be recognized.

Only the earth that is rich in matter is sublimated in life. As a result, greenery started on the earth
Are there. The earth prospers through order. Chemical processes occur automatically between the state of matter and life.
Live in grandeur. The basic point of this splendor is the expression of the material state being rich in itself.

The form of spontaneous complete expression of existence is the state of matter, life state, living state and
It is the state of knowledge. It is on the basis of this testimony, on the basis of this evidence, that all four
The conditions have been proved to be spontaneous. On this basis it is clear that in every earth these conditions
Development is continuously effective in order to be certified. There is no combination of making, becoming, maker in this.
Is not visible. Because existence itself is spontaneous through the method of coexistence. full of nature in power
Being itself is the sequence, process, result, state and movement of spontaneous expression. Make from these facts-
There is nothing that can be spoiled.

Coexistence itself is a self-expressed natural thing. In this sequence, development and awakening in nature is a daily possibility.
Remains appropriate in form. It appears in this way that when the material state is prosperous, then the vital state
To be sublimated appears to be an act, an event, a glory. When the soul is rich in itself
It happens, similarly, the undertaking of living life starts with the Swadaj method. found in swedaj world
This process has been observed in some objects or organisms that convert into the form of egg tradition.


<newpage>

critical materialism 43

Went. For example, scorpion is naturally self-made. It expresses the egg system.
There are other possibilities as well.

In the same sequence as the Andaj tradition, the living body, the human body, developed or prospered in the Pindaj tradition.
The creation can currently be seen being completed. already the relationship between life and body
Have explained. In human tradition, nutrition and preservation of the body is a work process, for which diet is a
are essential elements. Whereas solutions or holistic solutions for life, authenticity co-exists
This is the proof of awakening. Life is in the process of awakening. To nourish and protect the body, life itself
Remains accepted. Life itself mistakenly considers nutrition and preservation as its entire work. to the body
On the basis of providing liveliness, the body itself begins to be understood as life; That's mainly trapped, confused
It is a matter of being.

Until now, the events of this Earth have been confused, based on the history of those dimensions.
It has been made clear from. The body itself is life, as all living beings accept it and perform their actions.
And due to being mechanical in the process of enjoying the fruits, the entire living beings are being found to be controlled. There itself
Man is free in his actions, as a result, he has the ability to be controlled and organized in a spontaneous manner.
Despite the need and opportunity, it has not yet been controlled. imagination, freedom of action
Such amazing glory could not be appreciated. Life with freedom of action, innate powers, hope, thought,
Since ancient times, humans have been misusing desires out of illusion.

'As a result, till the last decade of this twentieth century, its proper use method was found in education, purpose method
Was not recognized. In practical science, its proper use method was not recognized, in the constitutions
Its conservation method was not understood, its evaluation method was not understood. Based on these testimonies
But it is clear that human tradition remains confused. The shops were decorated with betrayal at every turn and issue. testimony of this also
Present only. Just as royal thrones and religious thrones give assurances, just as commercialism gives assurances,
It is still awaited to be certified in practice. From this it can be seen that from the primitive man to now
Whatever transfer took place till now, was within the limits of the collection facility method of the items and their number.
Even today humans are evaluated. The largest number of all human beings are seen within the threshold of this collection facility.
Are falling. There can be some exceptions. Another reminder is necessary that since ancient times
Humans are found to have small community traditions, in which there is mostly distrust. some country


<newpage>

V4 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Those who express faith in time will be found in a small number and the largest number will be found on the basis of momentary faith.
But the man can be seen breathing. Thus, at present the number of people with faith is minimal.
Most are currently tortured persons. It can be checked in these forms:-

, Disbelief like that of primitive man is still growing?

Are we getting more trust from primitive humans now?

Has distrust towards primitive humans increased?

ri 7

From the beginning to now, has faith in human mutuality decreased?

Without falling too far behind in these four things, we definitely come to the conclusion that humans as we are now
In caste, confusion is present in the greatest form in all these traditions. There is a fear of inhumanity inherent in humans
This and getting rid of it is our main objective.

Due to human originality, the common man is still waiting to be freed from the traditions. This 
In harmony, it is necessary to decide that at present there is no such tradition in this earth that
Can claim this fearlessness. It is natural to have a doubt from this analysis that in the traditions
There is a need to consider this doubt which is not the source of fearlessness. it is seen as
The testimony of this is also found in the traditions, despite being confused, in some of these traditions or in every tradition
Sometimes some people are found to be better than what traditions say. example of-
Lists of role models have been preserved in human history, in every community and tradition. Despite this, the ideal
There is no dearth of individuals but there is no ideal tradition which is followed by all. traditions remain the same
The same remains. There may also be a question in this that when there have been good men, then the tradition has not been followed.
Why not improve? Why did you not become the source of awakening? -This can also be thought. The answer is this
That there is a distance between feeling good and being good, on mysterious grounds like God, Deity, Soul etc.
It has been said that all the good things are achieved only after severe penance. this consolation
It's a matter. But not every person can do it by doing severe penance. Not every person can be cured. these decisions
But in order to change all the theology and karmashastra, it is necessary to have an alternative basis.
It is said that such an option also came on the basis of objectivism and science. Its purpose is to do good for everyone
No more, ruling over nature remained the main declaration. Also everyone should get the goods or get


<newpage>

critical materialism 45

Should have clashed with expectations. His guess also did not succeed. as rule over nature
Instead of achieving success, we have become vulnerable to disaster due to natural disasters.

Hence, there was a need for an alternative. The alternative basis is existence itself, which was propounded
Are. Existence itself is coexistence and the forms of development are evident. This system or as a routine
I have understood. Now it becomes clear that the alternative basis is coexistence. on this basis
The one who thinks, understands, lives and proves is human. That's why its name existence
Fundamental is human centered thinking. Thus we come to this place that all individuals including humanity
There is a system and everyone has the right to participate in the system in the form of renewable power, renewable power and prosperity.
Is seen in individuals. On this basis every person is capable of awakening. suited for
And through successful method, alternative life knowledge, existential philosophy knowledge, humane conduct knowledge, etc.
It has been a necessity to cherish the ideology and wisdom based on law. on this basis
“Solutionary Materialism” presented itself before humans. In this way everyone has the right to be awakened
Is. Alternative philosophy and knowledge, on the other hand, is based on coexistence. The remarkable thing here is this
That:-

, Humans are an indivisible present in coexistence.

2. Man is the observer in existence.

On these grounds or from this point of view, the “fundamental logic of man” can also be identified.
Can. Analysis according to purpose, analysis according to purpose, in other words rational science and
Scientific rationality is the basic human innate logic.

Human innate originality, humanity itself becomes an expression. it in elemental form and existence
By simply testing, observing and surveying, it becomes clear that “every single thing in existence
There is a system with its “self” and it is a participant in the overall system.”

In this sequence, it is a natural language to imagine human beings and their existence along with their humanity. Imagination is natural expectation.
Behavior is a natural expectation and efforts are made to conform to these expectations.
In this sequence, humans can easily recognize humanity.

When humans are studied systematically, it becomes clear that humans are a combination of life and body.
Life is fulfilled with awareness. Then humanity is automatically proved in behavior. of unawakened


<newpage>

46 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In the situation which is expressed through human illusion; In the form of overlapping, non-overlapping and non-overlapping defects
Is evaluated. In this way, the nature of human nature which is expressed unconsciously is as follows:
It is counted in three ways:

4. Inferiority – which is deceit, fraud, arrogance and hypocrisy.

2. Humility- This is seen in the form of oppression due to lack and incompetence.

3. Cruelty- This is seen in the form of cruelty to wealth, cruelty to women, cruelty to men and pain to others.

This is the form of inhumanity. This is an illusionary revelation. Humanity is human nature.
It can be expressed consciously. Life itself awakens. It is only human who expresses it. this three
It is found to be meaningful in the following ways:

, Patience:- It is seen in the form of loyalty, determination and faith in justice. conduct all this
Are certified in. The basic form of justice which is visible in human beings is the identification of relationships and
Values ​​are maintained. Relationship always exists in mutuality, recognizing it is awakening. to maintain loyalty
Is. Evaluating the system is a simple process.

2. Bravery:- This bravery, which is expressed naturally, makes justice accessible to others.
To get it done, he invests his body, mind and wealth.

3. Generosity:- This is in a naturally awakened form. Excellence in developing the underdeveloped, in maintaining relationships
In respecting the family; village family; The body of the world family through the method of utility-good utility-
The mind and wealth are properly utilized and protected.

In this way, patience, bravery and generosity are seen as human nature.

Even today it can be observed in some people. Plan to make it accessible to all
And can try for work. In this way, human being's innate humanity is inherent in its natural nature.
Have originality. Such originality must be proved in practice to be found alive in every man and woman.
To be, being aware of tradition is an essential condition. Such human innate originality in any community
Till now it has been meaningful, proven, practical, has become recognized in the constitution and system.
Someone who has been immersed in the education tradition, who has recognized humanity in the values ​​and traditions,
Example not received yet. That's why the need and inevitability of an alternative is clear.


<newpage>

critical materialism 47

In practice, the necessary awakening becomes evident in humanitarian awareness. Consciousness means
To know, to believe, to recognize, to perform. Know and accept patience, bravery and generosity. human instinct
Originality is universally evident. Human consciousness in natural form after spontaneous awakening
The nature of salvation is understood. The form of salvation is freedom from illusion. human being in a state of full awakening
Experience and its continuity in existence find a natural state. This is the state of salvation in the form of freedom from illusion.
Or the state of awakened consciousness or life is liberation or liberated state. Such consciousness exists only in humans.
Yes, that behavior can also be proved in humans. After awakening or after ultimate awakening
Man is authentic in himself and in the form of kindness, grace and compassion along with recognition of relationships.
Originalities express themselves. These manifestations are called an awakened human being or a human being free from illusion.
You can see getting certified in. As soon as the humanistic tradition i.e. the natural tradition of human consciousness
After this, the spontaneous state of freedom from illusion, its purpose and its possibility is established.
You will understand. Therefore, the originality of the awakened human being:-

, Daya:- Goods are not available to anyone who qualifies for anything.
In such a situation, providing them access to things as per their eligibility is a practical proof of mercy.
Is.

2. Kindness: - Whoever has goods and attainments should not be entitled to them i.e. humane.
The use of body, mind and wealth along with perspective and proper utilization of it is the result of prosperity. establish their eligibility
It is a blessing to get it done.

3. Compassion: - Whoever does not have humanity, innate eligibility, qualification and things are not available,
In that situation, they should be provided with the entitlements, objects and achievements (use and proper utilization method).
Giving, this is the meaning of compassion.

In this way, the innate originality of kindness, mercy and compassion can be recognized in the actions and behavior of human beings.
Is . There has been a need for this. This human conscious behaviour, constitution, education and culture - ever since human
Only then will mercy, kindness, compassion be established in the tradition, the God-man, the divine-human natural personality will be established.
Will be able to recognize it as a tradition and will be able to follow it. Recognition of human innate originality in human tradition
It is an essential condition to have.


<newpage>

448 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

4. Awakened human tradition means human education, behavior based on experience, systematic
And Kari education, humane values, humane system i.e. family based self-rule system and
The Constitution is a humane code of conduct. This humanistic tradition existing in an indivisible form
Is.

2. Harmony among human civilization, culture, law and system is a humanistic tradition.

3. In the awakened human tradition, solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence remain readily available.

4. Access to justice, access to production, and access to exchange are present in, for and from every family.

As mentioned above, human consciousness, human tradition itself, human innate humanity, humanity innate originality,
The program of originality, spontaneous evaluation, spontaneous mutual satisfaction is the preservation of human tradition and
There is evidence of control. In such a situation rich in evidence and in motion, the system is the center point. attention to order
Keeping all the dimensions in mind, taking decisions in a logical manner is an essential task. This also
It is easily seen that humans are multidimensional expressions. At the root of all this i.e. all dimensions
The solution-oriented method is at the root of its expression. System based method in other language, System based method
Yes, it becomes clear that human beings can be controlled on the basis of two basic forms. solution oriented or
As a society based on solution-oriented approach, a united society is known. integral society and universal
The system itself, the protection and control of human tradition, is an obvious proof.

It is also not possible to control through a program without system. The human beings till this decade have created this chaos
Did something for. Insecurity, imbalance, tradition as much as betrayal, rebellion, exploitation and war in every community.
Could have raised the issue, did so, and trapped the remaining communities in it. These are the primitive humans and today's
The cutting edge is the criterion for weighing the human psyche. Now there are big roads, vehicles, telecommunications
No matter how many types of automated machines have been made, technology has been incorporated into summer systems,
Human beings are mostly seen using all these for treason, rebellion, exploitation and war.
Is and it is being assessed, can be assessed.

Humane behaviour, system, constitution, education and culture as well as diet, behaviour, behavior and personality.
And it is very important to prove the balance in talent. behavior, forms of human conduct
In this, as a participant in the system, it becomes clear, controlled and balanced. participation in the system,
Maintaining relationships and values ​​in practice is complementary to the system. Participation in the system mainly


<newpage>

critical materialism 49

There is participation in justice-protection, production-work and exchange-fund work. In addition, every human being
Just goes on diet and exercise.

Existential human centered system is very well explained in the light of interpretations of Sahaja Sutras.
Can recognize the methods. These two methods are- like vegetarianism, non-vegetarianism, very nutritious diet, very
Delicious food. There is some more thought involved in making it digestible as well. Think about diet this way
Has gone. When the purpose of all this is inspected and tested, it becomes clear that
Have a stronger and stronger body. This will be further known when its use is monitored.
Looks like he can fight as much as possible. Can survive in struggles, can achieve victory in struggles.
The fourth expectation may be a little more than that of the previous generation and that is to enjoy the most from oneself.
Can do.

In today's situation, the form of enjoyment, as seen in the young and adult generations, is concentrated in three places.
are done. Dormitory, bathroom and dining room. The assurance of getting it is in nationalized banks or
Have an account of huge amount in foreign banks. That is why human deceit, fraud, arrogance, hypocrisy, betrayal,
Revolt, exploitation and war force the adoption of these methods. This makes collection facilities possible
It is believed. Only a rare person is exempted from this due to his personality. otherwise small collections
On the basis of this, one can see being engrossed in these arrogant tantrums. treason, rebellion, deceit, fraud, arrogance, hypocrisy
There are only two solutions to forget all kinds of pain, frustrations and tortures caused by
Man is obsessed with sex, youth, addiction and alcohol consumption. These were considered paramount. It's like this
It is a matter of fact that the only way to get some relief was through sexual addiction and alcohol consumption. This
The difference between rich and poor that needs to be maintained is the most visible. of both the above mentioned addictions
In every level of living including proper food arrangement (i.e. minimum expenditure and maximum
There is still a distance to spend more. If I say it in my language then there is a difference of one and one lakh. Stubbornness
So this is it and this mentality works in every level that more and more, more and more
Expectations are high.

After seeing all this, what was the outcome of all this? When asked this answer was received from the human community
That more and more problems, more and more chaos. For the sake of human tradition from every such person this
Inherited chaos. And right now most of the people are in this account. This was called status quo.


<newpage>

20 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Whereas every person flowing in this flow is seeking change. From the above analysis this proof can be seen today
Every day it is being seen and heard that all the people are going for food, travel, business, earning, collection.
Do undesirable deeds. All this should be provided according to the initiative, process, trend, community consciousness,
Has been certified. There was no arrangement to be seen or heard anywhere in this. Hence, the hedonistic ideal as
It has been mentioned above and the secularist-devotional ideals, these two initiatives will lead to a united society.
And universal system was not found. All elements of materialistic logic, philosophy, epistemology, humanity
Have stayed away from. Not only this, it is proved to be useless, criminal, violent, increases unconsciousness and confusion.
Went. It is definitely known that the formula of confusion and unconsciousness, participation in the system and system
And the explanation or its assistants are not proven.

Participation in the system, constant awareness, spontaneous expression is to remain alert. to present evidence of awakening
It is only there. In that situation, it is the duty of every human being to prevent unconsciousness or any attempt to become unconscious.
To get freedom from it. For example, if we want to remain healthy, then all the causes of illness should be treated.
It has to be done. Similarly, unconsciousness, drug addiction, youth, sex, collection, madness, all these are factors of disorder.
Are. Once this is understood, every activity naturally has anarchist tendencies.
There is worthless and criminal in you. That is why in solution materialism the knowledge of life is presented in simple light,
The nature of existential philosophy is to make the originality of humane conduct studyable and to prove it.
Are. In its light, all chaos will easily prove unnecessary and order will be established.
It is easy.

Food i.e. eating habits is a major issue in human culture. of unity in a humane culture
Or the principles of a united society are four:- Culture, Civilization, Law and System. culture and civilization religion
From policy, law and order remains related to state policy.

State Policy: It is worth studying to be universal through family-based self-rule. forward recurring meaning
Will present the system in a position to make the study accessible. It has become possible to make this study accessible.
Its essence is that every human being has body, mind (knowledge and philosophy) and wealth.
Protection of such meaning is “state policy” and its proper use is “religious policy”. The splendor of life itself, of the state
In form there is security and speed of meaning. Good use itself is a form of happiness and religion. think of it like this
It can be said that man can be happy only in the good use of money, that is, faith in the present and hope for the future.


<newpage>

critical materialism 424

Assurance is found. Even today, where man understands or imagines the proper use of his meaning.
By using it there one finds solace and happiness within oneself. Wherever there is misuse of body, mind and wealth
It was understood that his pain was widespread. Humans do not like pain. That's why the system
In the form of a conforming society, the good use of money is proved. Security of wealth itself is family based
It becomes glorious in the form of self-rule, hence every human being should be a participant in the society and system.
It is a mandatory condition. Life is spontaneous awakening, society is spontaneous expression, system is spontaneous participation and
Behavior is an easy achievement; Such achievement here is solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence. this human instinct
Nature, speed, prestige, natural expectations, needs and achievements are also there.

In unconsciousness and in madness, human nature does not remain in motion. In this way, living in frenzy and passion, no matter how much
If a person is fat, he is surrounded by fear and doubts, hence he becomes weak. in passions
More or less, there is no strength left in the man. A person suffering from problems is weak. like this
A person suffering from profit mania, sexual ecstasy, enjoyment mania is weak mentally and physically.
is also weak because it is the mentality that displays strength through the body. This makes it easier
It is certain that “inhumanity is a weak condition in humans, from humans, for humans.” even if they
Monsters may be humans or animals may be humans, but they are still inhuman, hence both of them should be treated humanely.
It is natural to be weak. Because human nature (originality) is patience, bravery and generosity. There itself
The nature of inhuman i.e. animal and demon human is inferiority, humility and cruelty.

Every person understands how strong human innate originality is. this suggests
That the place of salvation from inhumanity, humane nature itself is glory. Hence the inhumanity,
It is easy for change to happen humanely or through humane methods, because no one can tolerate inhumanity.
Human beings (even those who are inhuman) do not accept it whereas every person accepts humanity.

Inhumanity can be seen thriving within the shell of humanity. the only reason to be forced to do so
The reason is that living evidence of humanity, comprehensible knowledge and philosophy are not accessible in tradition.
A survey can also be conducted to ask any drug addict on any issue.
If we talk through the method of acquiring knowledge and wisdom, then we will find that even an intoxicated person is not intoxicated.
Wants to be presented as it happened. If we discuss with a thief or robber about prudence and order, we will
This is what we find that while committing theft and robbery, we are not able to use the law and prudence in his favor.


<newpage>

22 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Is. On the contrary, whatever one keeps doing, keeps repeating the futility of the same thing.
lives. Similarly, from profit-obsessed, sex-obsessed and pleasure-obsessed, there is a system and discretion for the purpose of law.
By discussing it systematically we find that all the hysteria is meaningless. Similarly, today's politicians
Discuss the issue and see how long can votes, notes, distribution, satisfaction, dissatisfaction continue? healthier than
Can arrangements be made? On this he says that “Everyone cannot be satisfied, in the meantime we have to endure
To live is politics.” After talking to all these sections, they admit that
There have been great compulsions for work, but not all of them are “proper work.”

These people were asked that if this is not right then why do they do it? On this he says, “Apart from this, no one
There is no other way.” Similarly, the younger generation was asked, “Whatever you guys are doing, think
Are there drug abuse, hoarding, irresponsible actions etc. Is this right? - When asked this they say
That “honesty does not earn bread.” If you talk or work responsibly, you get crushed.” so bluntly
The younger generation talks. When we ask him about humanity, he says, “It is necessary.”
Thus, on the basis of these facts, it can be understood that a person who commits injustice, corruption and misconduct
Also accepts humanity as a necessity. Sayings of many important people like this
done. Among them, there have also been people sitting on the throne of religion, when discussion was held with them regarding humanity, everyone
It was considered inappropriate to deny humanity and the need for humanity. about their participation
When asked, they say, “We cannot talk about participation because our work has not been done till now.”
Well, from this perspective, everything else seems meaningless. That's why we can't take it." And so on.

It was also seen that these famous sages, saints and sages consider themselves to be the best among them.
That is, they consider themselves superior to humanity. According to him, humanity is the story of the common man.
According to them, they end their conversations by considering themselves superior to humanity.
Are. This means that sages, monks and saints all agree with the need for humanity.
It is understandable that this is different from the standards of humanity. But all is fair to humanity
Let's appoint. Thus, it is accepted by most of the people. Through this method the name of humanity will be spread to everyone.
is allowed. Originality is also accepted by everyone. Human knowledge is life knowledge. Only awakened human being is in the position of seer.
Are. Existential knowledge is possible for all human beings - conservative and fundamentalist people do not accept these things easily,
But even protesting is not possible.


<newpage>

critical materialism 423

2) human diet

The form of food is an important point in the art of living humanely. hope, thought, desire,
Determination, imagination and freedom of action – all this will act as humanity. human in that situation
Originality in itself becomes the basis of evaluation. In such a situation this analysis is necessary
Is this food humane or not? It has already been pointed out that the human body also
Life is composed of cells. In humans, life and body are in a combined form. to rich bodies
Life runs, these are the living beings in this category. It is clear that such species of creatures exist in terrestrial, aquatic and aerial forms.
Already happened. Now the human body in humans is a body rich in medhas. Freedom of action is in this man only,
Imagination is unleashed. This human observer position is empirically proven in the possibility of coexistence.
Is. Till then, exploitation of non-human nature as a result of delusion, fear and temptation, and being in the position of observer.
As a result, he has been seen as a nurturer.

Structure of intestines, nails and teeth in human anatomy Method of drinking water Vegetarian
Despite being living beings, humans also consume non-vegetarian food and alcohol. only humans can understand it
It is clear that even a vegetarian man is delusionally unbalanced. While it is absolutely necessary for humans to remain balanced
It is necessary. This is possible only when it is in its natural state. meaning of nature speed
The originality of man is humanity itself. It is natural to evaluate a human being on this basis. human
It is not possible to remain balanced by consuming non-vegetarian food and drinking alcohol. On this basis the second point
Its necessity becomes clear on seeing. That second point is that the system and
Participating in the system is an essential task of every human being. as a system with humanity
Vegetarianism is the only refuge to survive. It is also a necessity to understand this.

Non-vegetarian- At present-

, Most of the humans on this earth have become associated with non-vegetarian food.

2. At this time on this earth, humans believe that eating non-vegetarian is an inevitable condition.

3. Everyone has doubts about getting vegetarian food. Diplomatic politics flourishing in this mentality,
Communitarian cultural hysteria, fearful education, mistake by mistake, crime by crime, war by
Power-centered governance is effective today as a way to prevent war.


<newpage>

24 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

While all these were in effect, chaos and problems only increased. universal system,
The outline of a united society has not even been conceptualized till date. tradition till date in human tradition
Whatever is real in me, all that first came in the form of thought and then came into reality. Whatever thoughts I have so far,
That problem factor was seen only. That's why non-vegetarian mentality as a point to consider
Why shouldn't it also be problematic, a problem factor? Thus it is possible to ask a question because human
The solution to all the problems is found to be with natural expectation. basis function of the solution,
Production, exchange, thought and behavior are certified only on the basis of experience. Therefore human
In practice, it is basically a matter of diet and lifestyle. That's why there is a problem with non-vegetarianism
And delving into the solution aspects is an essential task. () Non-vegetarian (2) Vegetarian-its
Understand the form. Are these two the same or are they different mindsets and things? same of both items
Is there a purpose or a different purpose? It was considered necessary to decide this.

Existence is simply a gradual relationship with the non-human nature before us. Like- of material state
There is a gradual relationship with life state. There is a complementary and sequential relationship with the vital state and the material state. like this
It can also be said that from the state of matter to the state of life, from the state of life to the state of life, from the state of life to the state of knowledge.
There is a sequential relationship in the works of. Because the things of the material state, the chemical substances, are gloriously, the vital state.
Complete works of - Completed in the form of food, plants, body structure of life state and knowledge state
Well, it seems obvious. In this way, the chemical substances of the vital state are the plants, animals and human body.
Are in form. All of them are the same in the form of substance like life cell. This thing is clear. based on this
If you think about it, there is no visible difference between non-vegetarian and vegetarian diets. Perhaps this is what scientific analysis is all about
There is also perspective. Whereas looking at the meaning of source and purpose, it is clear that its appropriation is in the law.
There is only difference. Appropriation means planning as per the prescribed method.

Planning of food-vegetables in the prescribed manner means to supplement the material condition. material state,
To be complementary to the state of life, while the appropriation of body structure in the state of life and knowledge, is necessary for the survival of life.
Life has to be complementary to the body and life has to be complementary to the body; it is easily evident from the vital method. this is the main
Is element. The main allocation methods differ in body compositions and plant compositions. This variation states
It has become clear on the basis of defining, interpreting and publishing the present. Existence
Being proven in itself, in all four stages, has been proven on this earth. these four stages


<newpage>

critical materialism 425

I am clear. Certification of seer, scene and darshan has been an essential element. Life in this order
After this, the state of knowledge has manifested itself in a natural way. Existence is easy in all these manifestations
Rules and procedures are matter only.

Ever since humans have been interfering in forests, stones, metals, climate and soil, it has shown its bravery.
Kept crying. Meanwhile, man came to terms with man. resulting in diverse communities
A divided man is expressed in today's date. In this sequence, that is, in this confused sequence, human flesh-eating
Is hanging. The human body is said to be the tastiest among non-vegetarian foods. In this way humans too
After being a non-vegetarian unit, humans were accepted as non-vegetarians. If each
Man will have to make efforts for mentality to develop in humans. human, when human
If we make the basis of non-vegetarianism, then the question would arise as to how a non-vegetarian should be identified separately.
Is? In that situation the one who is strongest will eat more people. Now there was a competition to become stronger.
This matter of Malla war had been prepared even till Shilayug. In the present situation technical force is more
Became powerful. If a thin man shoots a giant, the giant will die.
Thus, it is not possible to make humans the basis for non-vegetarianism on the basis of force. with this
The matter of force, with wickedness, with animality, has proven to be a house of trouble and troubles.
Does not have human nature. In this situation one feels the need to think again.
When the non-vegetarian method based on force has not become the basis of the system for the human race, then who else?
There is a basis to consider the non-vegetarian method as valid. Only vegetarianism should not be the basis of the system
Found then that human consciousness is the only refuge which is humanity.

The anatomy, process of appropriation of structures and purpose have been indicated earlier. plant kingdom
The creations of are complementary to the earth. Whereas living beings and human bodies are also complementary to the earth. creatures
Life itself or the expression of life in bodies, animals and plants in different forms and
Makes identity clear. In this sequence, in the combined form of life and body, living beings and humans
It is clear to be present. Only the human being, living in the combined form of life and body, will evaluate in all respects.
In this assessment sequence, when rich medhas is created (or becomes) in the body of living beings, then in that situation
Life controls such a body. It is in such a body that the activities of the seven metals interact with each other.
It can be seen that it was accomplished with coordination. The seven metals are- 4. Juice, 2. Flesh, 3. Marrow, 4. Blood,


<newpage>

26 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

5. Muscle, 6. Bone and 7. Fat. In the composition of these metals, there is also a harmonious combination of each other.
Can be seen. Urinary system, womb system, excretory system, digestive system, juice system, blood system, cardiovascular system, lungs
Tantra, Medhas Tantra, all these appear to be intertwined with nerves, veins, sources and muscles. whole body with this
The mechanism is clear. Liveliness is the first condition in this. living body and human body including life force
can be governed by life.

The first condition for life to work with the human body or living body is said to be the presence of rich medhas.
Has gone. And which is the point of identification from which it is possible for life and body to merge?
goes. In this it is also shown as a pole point (the latter (signs of life in the body through Medhas Tantra)
The work of receiving and sending life signals continues. all such bodies life coincidentally
Are able to walk. Bodies in which all five sense organs are able to function only by the combination of life,
The presence of rich medhas in such a body can be identified. Apart from this, all other types of compositions
It is obvious to be Swadaj.

From this it came to light that every body in which rich medhas is composed and various rasas are
It is converted into blood only through a combination of processes; such a mechanism has been created in the body. in such a body
Only flesh and marrow etc. things are visible. The hope of living life by controlling the body like this
Jiva proves in bodies only, whereas hope, thought, desire, resolution and authenticity reside in human body.
That is why in every living tradition, those bodies are used for the expression of life.
Being is a natural process. By intervening with force in this, the strong should eat the weak, this is the meaning of non-vegetarian food.
This implies that it is not acceptable in the light of appropriation. The strength of the body, of the technologically advanced mechanics
In the light, an explanation of how a dwarf becomes, who for the first time used a gun to kill a brute like a lion.
It was revealed the same day that the animals had been killed. Today's more cutting-edge, poignant, extreme
Man has discovered many remedies which have lethal effect. In this
Instead of using rays and radiation systems, humans have been equipped with advanced technology.
Is. In this way, instead of physical force being effective, technical force has become the most effective.
The remarkable fact is that life itself gives rise to technology. So, humans should now think with a cool mind.
Has been obliged to.


<newpage>

critical materialism 27

It has become much easier for humans to recognize life. Jeevan Vidya is for this. Life
Innate equality can be understood in every human being. Study for this intuitive option, “Nuclear
Development and life knowledge”. After being endowed with both these opulences, the mysteries like God, deity soul etc.
The order of getting freedom from existence is formed by the philosophy of existence and it is clear that only human beings are developed and awakened.
After this, they attain the status of Gods and Goddesses. All these existences are in the order of spontaneous manifestation. hence human
It is easy to accept it through awakening or through awakening. Proof that the human race is awakened
A united society is a universal system. For participation in this, life knowledge, existence philosophy knowledge,
Humane conduct, knowledge and simple tradition is the only option. From this perspective of any life
Violating rights, identity and freedom is a sign of chaos. Therefore animals and
The killing of humans has proven to be a sign of chaos. Rule-Control-Balance, Justice-Religion-Truth Sahaj Vidhi
Living forward is the formula for universality and integrity.

Eating non-vegetarian is not possible without killing or slaughtering any living being. even if the presence of life
Even if one is in an unconscious state, blood circulation is found. blood when life leaves the body
Communication begins to break down. This function can be tested in every slaughter operation. blood
The preservation of meat remains only in the process of transmission. Blood conversion process is also essential for blood circulation.
There is a system. It is seen changing from juice to blood, from dirty blood to pure blood. this system
Due to the combination of body structure and life, the functioning of life remains balanced. This makes us take this decision
But it can be seen that the attainment of meat is seen to be accurate only in the body which is useful for life. some creature
Eating a strong person by force when he is weak is a clear form of non-vegetarianism.

Some people also present such an argument that after death, the natural movement of the body goes into the earth, the soil.
We have to meet. He asks casually what is the problem in eating it. The answer to this is existence itself.
It is seen in this way that humans perform actions in physical, verbal and mental form. in
Implements everything again in three ways or remains a possibility for implementation
Are. it follows that -

Has been done, got done, agreed to be done.
Thought, made to think and agreed to think.
Was spoken, was made to speak and consent was given to speak.


<newpage>

28 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In this way, a human being can be tested, observed and surveyed by following these nine (9) types of procedures.
Could. Through this method, the animals that are killed or slaughtered for meat-eating look different. they their
Find yourself doing this work for livelihood. By the method of selling and purchasing meat in this order
Reaches the eaters. The eater also gives his consent to the act of slaughter.
Gives in. He is able to buy the meat only with the consent and proof of that slaughter. In this way
Every non-vegetarian agrees with the killing and killing of human beings. Thus this thing
It becomes clear that whether they eat non-vegetarian food or vegetarian food, their editing, production and exchange activities
Every person agrees with each other i.e. non-vegetarian or vegetarian. Astu, non-vegetarian
It is the process of forcefully devouring the weak by the strong.

Weakness to test strength (.) The combined presence of body and life is a
are mandatory conditions. This can be tested in every situation. Like- human and tiger, human
And cat, human and dog. In this way humans can be weighed along with living beings. By second method-
Combination systems like tiger and boar, tiger and bear, tiger and goat, tiger and cow are studied.
What comes out of all this is that eating the weak by force, by force, is violence. (2) this
Look at the combinations of human and grass, human and leaf etc. in sequence. There is no life force like trees and plants in these
Remains and is an essential element for the maintenance of the body of living beings and humans.

() “Human Consciousness Presentation of Spontaneous Diet” “Diet Life Spontaneous Process (Hope,
It is an object to be recognized on the basis of aspiration) :-

Nutrient and protective elements for the living body and human body are found in plants which are looked after by life itself.
Even if living beings and humans do not use them, it has been made clear that they are complementary to the earth.
Despite living beings and humans using it to nourish and protect their bodies, their excreta,
Supplementation through urine is equally proven. In this way, in a balanced, cyclical manner, living beings and
Vegetation in natural form in appropriate quantity and quality for nutrition and protection of human body.
Is received. Knowing, believing, recognizing and fulfilling this is a major need for humans. whose
Fulfillment becomes comprehensible through conciliatory materialism.


<newpage>

critical materialism 29

(2) “Human consciousness is the art of living with natural diet” :-

In order to make the above facts useful, useful and purposeful, only humans can use their imagination,
Freedom of action, thoughtfulness and awareness, a united society, its continuity, universal system.
Keeping in mind its integrity, there is a need to reveal the art of living on this earth.
Is. By considering this, it has become possible to study methods, systems and policies. it is easily accessible
It is my resolve to make it.

(3) Different food and drink methods :-

Throughout human history, drinking mentality has also been at issue along with dietary mentality when studying communities.
Used to be. Why not call it non-vegetarian-drinking, vegetarianism-milk-drinking. proximity to food and drink
Has been related to. On human food and means of eating and drinking, on things dedicated to Gods and Goddesses.
Thought about being satisfied. In this order, it is accepted that the Gods and Goddesses are pleased.
Being angry is also accepted. The glory of Gods and Goddesses is sung in these two ways.
It is prevalent even today. It means those who legitimate their livelihood in idealistic activities.
Believe that they all talk about this type of glory.

(4) Collection treacherously :-

The man who has rejected idealistic activities is the one who accumulates through the use of force including tactics.
Admit it. Some people also believe that those who indulge in exploitation including deception, fraud, arrogance and hypocrisy,
The more advanced he is, the more successful he is in accumulating. Today's example of this
It is also seen in the situation that a successful politician is called the one who teaches the world “hard work-honesty”.
They teach us the lesson of “wealth”, keep their wealth accumulation hidden in safe places in foreign countries. Second, gradually
It is also being seen that their number is increasing gradually and that the world is being taught the teachings of renunciation and renunciation.
Teach lessons and keep your savings in nationalized banks. These are mainly religious leaders
Is being seen in. Businessmen and industrialists, officers and employees all accumulate wealth and
Are always willing to do it. If, for some reason, one of these does not accumulate wealth, regret it.
Admit it. Thus, after looking at all these things, the only conclusion was that betrayal


<newpage>

30 Intermediate Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Exploitation of money through deception, deceit, arrogance, hypocrisy is the best way to accumulate wealth and accumulate wealth.
Become a medium.

(5) Accumulation motivation and failure :-

Accumulation is always accomplished through betrayal and exploitation. Political leaders and religion for common people
Leaders, industrialists and businessmen are found to be in ideal form. All these i.e. the four sections mentioned above
When people are engaged in collection work, then the purpose and effort of collection becomes natural even in the common man.
It is found to be in the form. In this way, when all people try for accumulation, then the source of accumulation
How will it be accomplished? As far as accumulation is concerned, that too is not yet anywhere in the form of a definite satisfaction point.
This also made clear the possibility that there is no end point to accumulation or its quantity.

(6) Whose accumulation, how? Artificial scarcity, price increase – rendering the necessity of a commodity:-

This earth is the source of everything. Humans will be able to survive only if this earth remains. whatever is stored in the earth
is also present, it is minerals and vegetation and whatever is produced as food items, all
Are chemical substances. This is the basis of overall accumulation. These items were stored in warehouses
goes. These items cannot be deposited in the treasury. Their symbol is currency, it is recognized
Is. Anyone can save such symbolic currencies in human treasury. ultimately said above
Whenever a person will enjoy money in this manner, he will enjoy it only after converting it into a commodity. commodities (minerals,
Vegetation) is decreasing. One day after the lowest price, the same things will become valuable.
This is natural. According to human indulgence, when any thing becomes less, for him
Man's needs become more important. As a result, one would like to get it at any cost.
Most of the people are seen getting trapped in this type of dilemma. Sometimes like mineral oil (petrol,
The mere announcement of shortage of diesel) increases the number of customers for mineral oil. Similarly to sugar
Announcement of shortage i.e. by mere publicity its number of customers and its requirement
Are seen increasing. In this way, a lot of profit can be generated just by creating artificial scarcity.
The legal method of doing so has been accepted by the constitutions. These are prevalent in business systems. of the object in this manner
On the basis of scarcity, there is a possibility of increasing the value of the symbol whereas the human being is to get relief from the object itself.


<newpage>

critical materialism 434

(7) Mania is unnecessary for the system, futility of the assumed basis for alcoholism:-

One of the manias is profit mania, it has been confirmed - it is believed. civility and civility
In order to maintain it, any kind of frenzy is not helpful. Basically the mania for order,
Are not useful. In the same sequence of these insanities, alcohol consumption is also one or a way to become more insanity.
Is. Man does not accept madness but man has always tried to become mad.
Is. Mainly, humans have been discussing the pros and cons regarding alcohol. most in behavior
Such habits are seen in people. Most of the people who drink alcohol, those who do not drink alcohol
Drink and assume developed civilization from them. It is also heard that those who do not drink alcohol are backward.
Are of thought. This back-and-forth idea is a situation where there is no basis in between.
The reason is that the one in front and the one behind could not be identified. Yet in today's situation, many
In life we ​​keep ourselves busy in expensive liquor, shining cars, various types of dance and songs and
Shining house and clothes, these are what we call the best life. While there is something wonderful in it
There is no display of hidden crime. Because there are three sources to get the best scale:-

, Participation in a united society,

2. Participation in the universal system,

3. Can be recognized in humane conduct.

Instead of seeing the best life in man on the basis of prevalent sexual mania, profit mania and pleasure mania.
May go. A unified society, a universal system, has not yet been proposed or established, in which the basic
So that the ultimate philosophy, knowledge and conduct can be proved at the level of individuals (therefore)
It was possible to bring into discussion how many people in our communities have been confused in various ways,
Mania and its attendant and intensifying functions in the order of resolution methods.
There is drug addiction. Some of these people say, it is our money, we drink, what is your problem. people something like this
They also ask, a man has drunk alcohol and is sitting quietly, a man has not drunk alcohol and he is also sitting quietly.
Is. What is the difference between these two? The first one who says about drinking alcohol with one's own money, is the same thing in the train.
In the car, at home, after drinking alcohol, there is potentially pointless moaning about the pain. with those drunks
Having a conversation leads to futility or bitterness. Which is cigarette, beedi, ganja, liquor etc.
Even a person intoxicated with smelly intoxicants will still have the rejection for the drug.


<newpage>

32 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Are. Despite this, some families were found to be in favor of smoking beedis, drinking alcohol etc. with their own money.
Has gone. On studying this it becomes clear that the one who lives on the financial favor of the drug addict
There is Hua family, some of them do this kind of advocacy.

(8) Purpose-system of all arguments. Drug addiction is not helpful in the system:-

The main issue with this is that there can be a lot of conversation involved. purpose of all conversation arrangement
And participation in the system is a completely humane conduct, this is certain. A person who lives in the system
Balance remains natural. As a matter of fact, unbalanced after consuming any intoxicant.
It does happen. This makes it clear that drug addiction for humans is not helpful in the system. Intoxication
Increases hysteria, not decreases it, and every hysteria is chaos. Addiction itself is madness.

(9) Two methods of infusion: Distillation and distillation of alcohol, its functioning
Affects- This (intoxication) is not lawful: -

What is the difference between a man being intoxicated and sitting quietly? To analyze it accurately today's
The situation is very favourable. Milk and wine are clarified on the basis of the things they contain. Alcohol,
One is the substance obtained by distillation after rotting a sweet substance. second of infusion manufacturing
In this method, any sweet thing is forced to be infused into it.
To prevent the base liquid from getting completely distorted, it prepares the liquor by itself using the proportional method.
The original liquid is preserved with alcohol. Hence it is suitable for medicine.

Alcohol obtained through the first method naturally increases insanity. Therefore, participation in this system
Creates a hindrance, it is clear. Meaning of sitting quietly, doing nothing, nothing
It is made even while speaking, so it is not that a drunk person is not thoughtful. thoughtful
It always exists, that is why there is influence of intoxication and alcohol in the thoughts. Whenever any work is done, then
There is proof of that. Therefore, to express humane conduct by participating in the system.
All types of intoxication are harmful for us. Any intoxication is not helpful in this.

(0) What is milk? The juice inspired by love expressed in the living body is :-


<newpage>

critical materialism 433

Now look at the form of milk. Those who purely consume plants and grains, their
The juice that is produced in the body, when it is produced according to the process of love, i.e. when it comes out, is called milk.
Is. It is very important for milk to be filled with affection and love, otherwise there would be no milk.
This process is thus markedly the body's Gath Rasa. various types of secretion of juices
is found. One of those methods is milk. More juice than required by the body becomes milk or urine
Whether it gets transformed into blood or becomes useful for the body. This is the system made in the body system. Cow
Like other animals from which milk is to be taken, it (cow) naturally produces more milk after a certain age.
it occurs. All the processes that have to take place in it start and the cow becomes capable of giving milk. This also includes
It has been observed that if milk is not produced then a very big cow - like a four-foot cow has become eight-foot or five-foot.
The one with one foot has become the one with ten feet; A cow weighing two quintals has become worth fifty quintals; something like this would happen
No . For example, in humans, when urine and stool is stopped, their weight increases, thickness increases, height increases.
It increases, there is nothing like that. Humans have imagination, that's why it makes them run. ultimately reality
One has to accept and the man accepts. This is also the sequence of awakening. The main thing is in milk and
The difference between liquor is that the sweet thing gets distorted and becomes liquor and the milk is life's natural longing, love, affection.
The Rasa inspired by is Nishya. The difference between the two is the only issue that humans can understand.

() “Eating non-vegetarian, eating embryo-less eggs, an awakened human being is not comfortable” :-

Non-vegetarianism and vegetarianism have already been clearly analyzed. Vegetarianism is basically derived from plants.
Is an object. Non-vegetarian food is anything obtained from living organism or human body. Source of meat: Andaj-Pindaj tradition
It is only there. The visible source of vegetarianism is the seed-tree tradition. In order to eat meat, add some more things
Let's take that poultry farming, hen's egg. In these eggs, a chicken will be born and the one will not be born - two types
Are. The logic behind this is that a chicken is not born from an egg, hence it is not included in non-vegetarian food. This
It is necessary to bring this point in mind because it is already clear that non-vegetarian and vegetarian
All types of things in between come in the distorted or sweetened method. In relation to embryoless eggs which
It is thought that they have succeeded in producing eggs without embryos, but all of them are of indigenous species.
Come into the calculation. It has been mentioned earlier also that what is wrong in eating animals after their death?
-Thus there is tacit consent in eating non-vegetarian. Who eat dead eggs. It is dead because it has
There are no embryos.


<newpage>

34 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

3) Human originality

Man is not controlled by hereditary method, whereas all living beings are human beings who maintain their originality themselves.
Recognizing this, he wants to keep his conduct, thoughts, behavior and system intact. This is every human
There is glory and dignity in spontaneous originality. Man is in the position of an awakened observer, hence his
Recognizing originality has become a necessity. life by hereditary method in non-human organisms
Being controlled and balanced with consent is being seen. Whereas man has written his own history
According to this, it is not acceptable to be controlled by hereditary method. This fact has already been noted
That humans are multidimensional according to their history. This has been seen to occur only in humans and in some
This type of incident did not happen in the creature. Looking at this sequence, it becomes clear that the multi-dimensionality of human beings is
Being based on history itself is testimony to the denial of heredity. This is also a part of human tradition
Have originality. Human tradition is also fundamental.

Incarnation of human body, order of incarnation, reason, order of incarnation of living body :-

The original human being, in its sequence of expression, may be born from the uterus of any creature or animal, the human being
The expression of is clear in order to prove it on the basis of intelligibility. get to the bottom of it
It follows that the compositional formula which is a spontaneous embryo - remains active in its original form, which is the same as before for any dynasty.
also remain created. Whenever there is a change in dynasty or promotion, in that case from the previous creation formula,
A different composition formula is formed. Its origin lies in heredity and various variations in the form of body structure.
These types of bodies were already prepared before the incarnation of human beings.

It is possible to consider the initial form of human anatomy from some living organism. Despite this,
There was no acceptance of lineage, that is, of the lineage behind it, in human tradition from the very beginning. it
This phenomenon is not something that started only after the arrival of humans. Even before this, many times the creatures
The body composition has changed. This can be seen as testimony even today. it can be assumed
It is possible that the number of species that we see now in the living world is not all present simultaneously.
Is born. Because we now know very well that for changes to occur in the body structure of an organism,
Favorable embryo development intentions (uterus or womb-like conditions) already present in the organism's anatomical structure itself.


<newpage>

critical materialism 435

It is necessary to grow in it. If asked why does it change? So the answer is- “harmony
in the form of." The basis of such harmony lies in the sequence of creation, in the sequence of awakening of life, after the human body structure.
Only this is found to be certified.

Life awakening is a destiny sequence natural system, because existence itself exists mainly in the form of four states.
The awakened human being is expressed along with the tradition. This is its natural form. The nature of co-existence is also the same
Is. Only if the full splendor of nature imbued in power is seen and understood, only so many forms can be seen.
Are falling. By thinking through existential human centered thinking method, it becomes clear that-

4. Development is gradual.

Development is a transition in life.

Physical-chemical splendor is a destination in the course of evolution.

ri 7

Existence itself is coexistence, on this basis the coexistence relationship exists between life and body.

It is only there.

On this basis, life unfolds in its own awakening sequence. Any amount of dissatisfaction in the body
Publication remains, such an event itself is a basis for change in the composition formula, i.e. in the anatomy formula also.
Are made. Along with that, there is also a spontaneous process of change in the composition formula and method. both of these
Progress of tradition as an expression of instability rather than stability of heredity
Easy, diverse bodies kept getting ready. Again it became a tradition. The lineage continues as tradition
Hee. Life came in all those bodies, expressing the hope of living. ultimately just like the human body
Incarnated, along with him he rejected the hereditary expression, the multidimensional expression
accepted . Before the incarnation of this human body, life accepted the heredity of every species.
remained or had to be accepted. In such a situation, things happen with the lives that run those bodies.
Stayed, kept moving or kept getting hypnotized. In this way the species of genera change and change.
The objective becomes clear to both.

In the illusion tradition, in the method of Sadhana, in the identification of Siddhas, in the identification of Siddha places: -

The difficulty that most people face in operating the human body with awareness is the result of tradition.
Is analyzed as. Being free from illusion by awakening life is also proven in a rare human being.


<newpage>

36 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It happens and has happened. Panchayat of diversity according to traditions, the definite method in which life
Of all the methods that can be awakened, there remains the most uncertainty. Despite this, many
The meritorious devote themselves to spiritual practice. Basically, despite such uncertainty and ambiguity,
The basic reason for remaining dedicated to spiritual practice is that basically man is wrong and tradition is right - with this faith.
Man is sacrificed. This is called sadhana, practice, search for truth etc. thousands of brilliant people always
It is also visible that offerings are being made in this. If the tradition were correct in this then every person
Whatever they are trying to convey in the name of truth, soul, God, welfare, all that as an objective.
It is being seen that it did not pass the test of study. Therefore human; rational
He was not satisfied with the absence of law and dedicated himself to the law based on beliefs and teachings.
Is. The responsibilities of the families, justice and business of all those who have surrendered so far.
Have been damaged. Despite this, even today man considers himself dedicated to truth and truthfulness.
Even after being considered successful in this, no outline or method of study is available as proof.
Gets it.

Meanwhile, on the basis of such public belief, the general public accepts that they have been successful.
But recognize. In this situation, such a seeker also accepts “I have become accomplished” because people are accepting it.
Are. This situation was found to be believed in the public mind that whatever a perfect man says, even if it is a curse,
Even if there is grace, it will materialize. Due to such fear and temptation, this belief is most
It has been created within the limits and compulsions of desires. On the basis of those events happening as per their
But considering that person a perfect man, people have faith in him and have faith in him. many such places
Have been built where a lot of money has been collected. collection of money for public use
On seeing it, it is considered correct. If it is the opposite then it is considered wrong - this was also seen
Is. After looking at all the methods like this:-

4. Large crowd gathering at the place marked for success of temptations.

2. Gathering of crowd even on the basis of assurances from any organization. To fulfill valid assurances

Wherever assurance is received, a large crowd gathers there.


<newpage>

critical materialism 437

Option:-

Mediated philosophy (coexistence) through this, truth is accessible to all, studyable, practical evidence,
Tradition has naturally become a convenient coincidence. The main issue is to understand the truth; solution complete idea
Style is to be established in human beings and humane conduct is to be practiced in every human being. whose
'As a result, a united society, universal system is accepted, this human tradition is being developed in a true and dynamic manner.
Are the form of being. In this its simple process studies life knowledge and life knowledge in a studyable method.
The evidence based study is worth studying. As a result, traditions are accessible. Existential philosophy, life through practice in the form of study
Learning happens in easy light. The ultimate truth is coexistence. accept truth as expression
It happens. Coexistence is a natural form of existence, such coexistence is easily accepted and the art of living.
Existence is proved as an innate truth. This life is the proof of spontaneous awakening, proof of behavior.
Is. Unbroken society, proof of participation in the universal system, expression of maturity in the philosophy of existence.
There is evidence in. As a result, satisfaction of authenticity in life, natural expression of existence.
Is form. In the awakened human tradition, its function is universally accepted in the balance of personality and talent. He-

, All-round solution – based on wisdom

2. Prosperity – More productive than necessary in a sensible family.

3. Abhay - Human culture-civilization, law and order in a united society.
4. Coexistence – Universal system, in ten-step form of partnership.

Thus, in order to prove these facts, human beings have to be formulated and interpreted from multiple dimensions.
Being itself is a complete wonder of humanity. As a result, the tradition of planning and action planning was established,
By preserving it we will be able to see its integrity. This is the human tradition of living with natural originality i.e. grandeur.
The appropriate solution is to live as a tradition.

The form of human living in a natural way should be meaningful only in the form of human culture, civilization, law, system.
is found. On the basis of these realities, religion (system) and state (dynamics of the system) are proved.
To exist is its glory. The purpose of Vikalp is to give meaningful form to this awakening spontaneous glory.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

38 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

4) Interrelationship between religion and state

() Failure of Dharma Gaddi :-

State in the form of power-centered governance and religion in the form of assurances like grace, boon, salvation; grace, boon,
To attain salvation, all kinds of sadhanas, penances, practices like things were seen as religion. every
The practice done in the tradition, the respect for that tradition increased. Sadhana in tradition means community
It is from the practice of sadhana prevalent in the tradition. Every seeker who has performed penance and practice with tireless efforts,
Whatever time he spent, the whole person got absorbed in the worship. While the evidence tradition remained expected, it
Also awaited. No such sadhana, undertaking, knowledge, philosophy, ritual, education, culture, practice has emerged.
Found the best solution which is easy. At least most of the great men, yetis, satis, saints, siddhas, ascetics,
Yogi was in favor of removing many community related bitterness present in this earth. even from them
Bitterness related to communities could not go away. In every community, communities carrying Karma, Dharmashastra, more
Showed more fanaticism than. Which the common man found as torture. in every community
He practiced the method of renunciation and remained among those who wanted all the good. Those who remain devotees in a community
Expressed maximum courtesy towards the world. In singing the praises of the deity's pastimes and
We feel extremely proud of being present with each other in the form of stories, conversations and satsang.
Keep doing. Along with this, there were also those who believed in the state. with the state and with the king

The attention got absorbed.

(2) State is system, not governance:-

State and religion are one name based on existential, human-centric thinking. The object at the root of the name is,
This thing itself is the system. The system is coexistence in itself. The observer of existence as it is expressed
Only humans are awakened. The visible form of existence is regular, controlled and balanced. Its
Present in the form of joint form system. Every thing is in the form of a system with its own essence i.e.
Its presence in a controlled, balanced, systematic form is constantly evident.


<newpage>

critical materialism 439

(3) System exists in the form of natural coexistence, which is proved in all four stages: -

Man also sees the scene in the present. Seeing means understanding, understanding is proof of understanding.
Presenting itself is awakening. Understand; It is proved in the form of knowing, believing, recognizing and living. This only
This is the proof of the position of seer. The noteworthy fact is that there is an indivisible observer in human existence. basis of relationships
But existence itself makes sense as a simple system. The natural order of existence is coexistence. so
While there is arrangement for each one, the overall system is found to be based on the formula of participation.
The proof is that the four stages, their mutual complementarity, sublimation, development and awakening are easily visible.
Does matter. Human beings are the proof of awakening in this. The proof of evolution in the atom is life. of complementarity
The proof is the entire vital state. The proof of sublimation is the creation of the entire vital state as well as the living body.
And the state of knowledge is the creation of the (human) body.

(4) The existence of which is evident in the system through human intelligence is natural: -

Existence is a splendor in the form of spontaneous arrangement and present spontaneous proof. Whenever human system experience
When it does, then and there one finds confidence in the present and assurance about the future. confident about the future
Having it means having a systematic plan and action plan. Presently faith means wisdom
Including fulfillment of responsibilities and duties. Which has been done well, is being done and there is dedication in doing it.
The form of wisdom is awareness of life knowledge, existence philosophy knowledge, humane conduct knowledge, from, for.
Is. Awakening means knowing, believing, recognizing and living. Thus awakening is the present,
The present is the complete form of awakening.

(5) Recognizing oneself, life knowledge and awakening – “Experience in co-existence is the only natural awakening.”
Is ever present” :-

This is the main point. Human beings are naturally in the present stage of spontaneous awakening. to recognize oneself
Life is knowledge. The experience of life knowledge is innate to, from and for human beings. life knowledge itself in the present
Explains as being of. To be is the present. The very nature of existence is ever present. complete
Being is evident in four states. Apart from being complete, human existence is also indivisible.
Life and existence are also inseparable in existence. Life continues to exist even after awakening
Is found to be ever present. Existence itself is basically glory. Live your life with awareness


<newpage>

40 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Expresses. This visionary position is the proof of wisdom. Existence is present in existence and rationality
Uniformity is basically the formula and explanation of the system.

(6) In case of lack of understanding, the problem is revealed: -

Being in the form of co-existence is the formula and being in four states is the destiny. Simple explanation
Is form. In this way existence is the complete thing, awakened life is the seer and man is the only seer.
Is certifiable.

In human coexistence, the experience of the observer is the proof of the system based on status and prestige. only human
One is able to intelligently express every work, behaviour, configuration, thoughts in the form of a system.
Using imagination and freedom of action without wisdom can in itself create the most problems.
Does it. This is the reason for the problems caused by confusion in human beings. Imagination is also limited in thoughts.
Uses. Then Vanjaramaya also presents literature. On this basis, names of art and literature
Imaginations also run wild.

(7) Basic form of state and religion:-

Imagination in humans, complete practice of action freedom, solution resulting from practical practice
Want to. With this method the research process becomes possible easily. Thus towards the solution of human
It is easy to remain hopeful. On this basis, every human being prefers (researches or conducts research on) solutions.
Is. In this way, the basic form of state and religion is rational system. as an expression of order
It is an all-round solution. By the method of identifying and evaluating relationships and values ​​in society.
is found to be resolved. This is human religion. This is proof of awakening. awakening self solution
And it has continuity. The purpose of awakening is to become aware of everyone in existence. awakening
It means to know, believe, recognize and fulfill. This experience of coexistence with life knowledge
Is. Knowing, believing, recognizing, living the form, qualities, nature, religion of matter is this matter.
There is awareness towards. Similarly, in the state of life, life and knowledge, their form, qualities, nature, religion
Being aware of this is the proof of human being being awakened. With these proofs, every human being
Having faith in the present is proved.


<newpage>

critical materialism 444

(8) All is the system with its “tva”, which is coexistence; Because existence does not decrease
Increases :-

It is only through awakening that man exists in the system and he participates in the system, this is human religion. because iron
With its ironness; Cow with cowliness; There is a system with Doob Doobtva and a participant in the overall system.
Is. Similarly, human is a system with humanity and participation in the overall system is what makes a human.
There is evidence of coexistence. Coexistence is a natural arrangement. Thus human religion, system
And coexistence in its natural form, existence is the revelation of Sahaja Dharma. That's why it's called coexistence
Getting instructions from the name to the name is the success of communication. Nami's form is - with all the arrangements
This is the present, in which it is understood that human beings are also indivisible. Thus - “The system is a totality
It is an expression of which the awakened human observer is the natural proof.

(9) Explanation of existence, spontaneous state, religion, social system and its continuity: -

Basically existence itself is grandeur, grandeur is the state. The indivisibility of human beings in existence also became clear.
Is. There is complete glory only in the form of co-existence, because all states of being are indivisible. Their different-
It is not possible to see it separately. All states of being appear to be included in power. Power
is widespread. It is impossible to imagine a place where there is no power. things in power
Existence is found to exist i.e. existence itself is the complete thing. Coexistence is basically complete existence. This
The basic formula or the ultimate formula of totality, natural indivisibility is nature itself, which is full of existence.
Therefore, it is only in power that the entire state of affairs is seen to be regular, controlled, balanced and resolved.
Is . Coexistence of all these facts is the ultimate beauty, ultimate happiness and ultimate solution and ultimate truth.
Existence itself is coexistence. Based on the above mentioned analyzes and conclusions, the basic form of religion and state
Coexistence indicates a regular arrangement. Because coexistence is spontaneous activity and splendor.
It is the fabric of participation in the system and the system including the entire “being”. any condition and any such
There is no visible entity that remains separate from this fabric. The beauty is that power itself exists.
is indivisible.

Thus existence itself is its complete form and glory. This is the system. Therefore the human being in himself
To have a system and to participate in the system and to be able to glorify oneself in easy work is freedom of action.


<newpage>

42 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is the fulfillment point of imagination. Imagination is satisfied in the self-rule system. his
There is an innate luxury to continuity. This is the glory of a united society, a universal system. each of these
Man is a system with humanity and is able to present evidence of participation in the overall system. This only
On the basis of being human, it is understandable that family is universally accessible through family oriented method. In reality,
The world family itself, intertwined with the family-oriented method, is the activity of social creation and is in constant motion.
It is natural for such a family to also be a form of system. system, justice in itself, production,
There is participation in exchange. This is an explained fact passed from family to world family. on these grounds
“System is the splendor of society and religion is the form of society.” human order with humanity
There is society and the overall system – justice, production, participation in exchange. This is the meaning of the overall system
Is. For their continuity, in another language, in human tradition, and participation in the system is necessary.
To be prosperous, along with the sources of human education, values ​​and health-control, human tradition is also needed.
The awakened splendor becomes clear.

(0) All-round solution in awakened tradition and problem through confused tradition:-

To prove the awakening of human tradition, knowledge of life, philosophy of existence and humanity.
It is necessary to remain certified in complete conduct knowledge, from, to. As a result of this, family based self-rule
And it becomes possible to live a united society and establish a universal system easily. of human
It is essential to have a set idea at the core of all the activities that take place. by human
Thought lies at the root of every action, it has only two stages:-

, awakening spontaneous thoughts,

2. Confused thoughts.

All the actions done with confused thoughts only lead to the pain of problems. in that situation
Human beings naturally prefer solutions, not problems. On asking where it comes from, it becomes clear that
It appears that due to confused traditions, humans do wrong things even when they don't want to.
Whereas with awareness the all-round solution leads to complete work-behavior.


<newpage>

critical materialism 443

(44) Man wants happiness in every situation, even without knowing he wants solution.

Despite this it creates problems. To know, believe, recognize between human desire and being.
There is a need. Every person remains dedicated to community tradition. Every community tradition this decade
is confused till now, this is the proof that human beings are capable of achieving all-round solution, universal system, united society and
All the studies and proofs of becoming proficient and participating in these should be accomplished through education, culture and
Couldn't do it.

(42) Interest based activities are not universal and justice, religion and truth are universal.
seen.

Therefore, humans naturally want good life. Out of interest, every community has been doing confusing things.
As long as a person behaves in an interest-oriented manner, he causes mischief. overall interests sense
Are in approximative form. That is, they do the work according to the body. justice to the senses
There are no places. Everyone wants justice. With the senses there is only love, interest and profit. love activities
Sound, touch, form, taste, smell are evident as pleasing to the senses. Good for the body-
Is seen as inappropriate. The processes of giving more and getting more are seen as benefits
Is . This activity is interest based. Dear, there is no satisfaction point for interest or profit. to the body
No matter how well maintained, the body still gets deformed. with sensory activities
The problem is that when a thing seems good to one person, the same thing seems bad to others.
Looks like. Secondly, even a good eater faces the situation of feeling full at some point, after that
The same food starts tasting bad. When one man is feeling bad, another man is hungry.
He likes to eat the same food. How long does it take for a person to feel good or bad about a sensation?
It is not meant to be like that, hence feeling good and feeling bad are not universal and the satisfaction of profit
The point is nowhere. There is no satisfaction point of collection, hence there is no fixed criterion of profit.
It happens, therefore it is not universal. Hence, all the things that have been enumerated, their beloveds, interests, benefits,
It is not possible to have a system based on enjoyment, convenience and collection. Therefore the last decade of this century
Universal system could not be established till then.


<newpage>

444 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is easy for rules, justice, religion and truth to become universal due to the natural method of destiny. Man has to experience his
On the basis of the status of a seer and prestige, it is easy to present justice with complete law because that life is easy. Birth
From the very beginning, man is a seeker of justice, wants to behave rightly and is a speaker of truth. legacy
It is naturally expected that every human child; Be equipped with capacity to deliver justice, do the right thing-
Be endowed with the ability to behave, be capable of attaining the qualification of realizing the truth, in this form
The positive side is clear. This means that the awakened tradition is the innate glory, that every
Knowledge of relationships, values ​​and evaluation in children, innate thoughts and behaviour, practice in easy tasks.
Participation should be based on humanitarian commitment and tradition. In the wake of the awakened tradition, every human child should receive the right
Work behavior, knowledge, thoughts and actions are easily accessible. ultimate truth study like existence
Is accessible in advance. Besides, supreme knowledge like knowledge of life is easily available or accessible to all. Such
Tradition is human tradition. All the traditions which do not have such qualifications belong to the humanitarian tradition.
Is easily willing or bound to change in form.

(43) Four stages of existence, heredity and cultural inheritance: -

Existence naturally exists in a state of co-existence and constant relationship because the state of matter, the state of life,
The state of being alive and the state of knowledge – these are definitely related. The very meaning of relationship is to remain contracted in the sense of completeness.
In the order of its fulfillment, the methods are effective in different forms in all the four stages - it can be seen that
Get. For example, the entire material state and relationships are seen to be functioning as per rules.
There is a system with rules and principles, this is balance. This system including 'Twa' is meaningful only in all situations.
It is confirmed that it happened. This is proof that the state of matter itself is the splendor sublimated into the state of life. Sublimated
To exist means to be transformed into a form of chemical splendor. Because the objects of matter themselves
It gets transformed into chemical substances by spontaneous process. As a result, the splendor of life is proved.
Is. The basic form of Pranavastha is Prana Kosha and various types of sutras including the method of creation contained in it.
Compositions are seen in semi-genetic and hereditary forms. The living body and the human body are also vital
Is composed of cells. They live in prosperity on the basis of hereditary sources. survival and
In the state of knowledge, life and body are a combined form, this tradition is seen. of these humans
Tradition is one, traditions of living beings are many. The living traditions are established in the form of many lineages. and lineages
There is evidence as well. Whereas even in human tradition, body structures in the form of many lineages can be seen.


<newpage>

critical materialism 445

Is available. All these express uniformity in a ritualistic manner, and are blessed with opportunities to do so.
Are.

(44) To know, to believe, to recognize is sanskar. The human system is dependent on culture
The basis is :-

In the first co-existence of visual appearance and knowledge, the rules including the state of matter, “Twa” are consequential.
Let's get it done legally. This is what is meant by the regularity of the state of matter. regular method in life
The system including “Twa” is found to be controlled by the seminal process. The living being in its “twa”
Including, the system is proved to be balanced through hereditary method. one in human knowledge
There is original glory. This grandeur of vision and awakening is a tradition in the form of easy proofs. such vision awakening
Continuously succeeds in the Sahaj tradition. Human tradition is a cultural expression. heredity
The process is limited only to the body. Human expression is life-oriented, not body-oriented. Although
Man is famous only in the combined form of body and life. Acceptance and awakening of values ​​in life itself
Are certified. Sanskar is the process of knowing, believing, recognizing and practicing it as per standard.
Its awakening is to know, believe, recognize and fulfill. Sanskar process in family tradition,
Is provided for, from. This is the proof of the sanskar process and consciousness development, value education is sanskar.
In this way, Sanskar becomes clear in the form of Sanskar tradition and legal process. this is human consciousness
There is easy glory. The complete sanskar and evidence of human being has to be known, believed, recognized and followed. it
Justice, religion and truth are easily revealed through Nirbham method. That is, knowing, believing, obtained through an error-free method.
Recognizing and fulfilling it is itself proof of justice, religion and truth. This humanitarian expression,
Communication and publication are inherently participation in order and system.

(45) Justice :-

Justice is relation, value, evaluation, ambivalence. Originality, nature of justice, relationship, value in its natural form.
And there is evaluation only. This is evident in the form of human relations, natural relations and production relations.
Human relations are a form of behavioral formula. Natural relationship complementarity is an innate truth. production relations
Utility is a simple relation. In order to prove their utility, labor planning is done on natural wealth.
And in the form of establishing and evaluating art value. exchange process carried out by rotation method


<newpage>

46 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

It is found to be practical in advance. Human relations are the basis of social creation. family based method
The creation of society is continuous and spontaneous. Humanity is the source of satisfaction in family relations. family is world family
As a united society. The expression of order with family composition is an essential condition.
The system is a process dominated by justice, exchange and production in a natural order of expression. established in judicial process
And evaluation of ethical values ​​is fundamental. Valuation of labor values ​​is fundamental in the exchange process. Production
Labor planning in work or production method is fundamental. In this way, originality and universality are triadic.
And integrity is easy. For this expression, human education, values ​​and health-restraint
There are essential programs. On this basis, to create a universal system and an integral society, human
The awakening of is found.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism 447

5) Human identity, identity of great men

Ancient and modern human nature behavior, evidence of complete individualism
Because the detached and devotional character is also individualistic. between these two
There are different types of histories, all of them are illusionary stories in different ways. All human communities so far
Recognizes itself in tradition, all of them have had only one 'curse' that they feel indivisible in existence.
Not being able to see the form in its entirety. The second curse is the desire to recognize oneself.
Its clear form of being incomplete is not being able to give testimony of recognizing the truth. General
People who do not even have the smell to recognize themselves, such people are introspective, introspective to many great men on this issue.
The wise continue to believe. The remarkable thing is that whenever the common people demonstrate their faith
If one is able to do so, then at its core lies the expectation of all the wishes being successful. wishes
Most of the fear, temptation, poverty, suffering, natural calamity, disease are related to the destruction of enemies.
We can survey the minds of today's people. Success in collection of facilities, livelihood, studies etc.
In order to achieve success, seniority in livelihood, increasing power (authority) in rights also
The wishes have been surveyed. Evidence can be found by doing survey. this is such an issue
There is no basis on which introspection or ultimate knowledge, ultimate thought, ultimate conduct can be understood.
Therefore, the basis of all these remains only the words of traditional holy books and scriptural evidence. Person
At present there is no proof. Doubts always remained about the inaccessibility of the sacred texts i.e. their being universally accessible.
Lives. In this way, there could not be a definite study and definite tradition of self-confidence. this human
While there is natural desire, there is pain of unfulfillment.

The method of recognizing, subsisting, knowing, believing in its inseparable form in its resolution and existence.
Life becomes filled with knowledge, existence with philosophy and humane conduct. this awakening
There is glory of tradition also. To understand life, i.e. to know, believe, exist human innate
All the activities of life can be recognized in the sequence of consciousness. easy to believe
Is. Because in Sahaj itself, the sequence of awakening from consciousness to awakening becomes clear in itself, from, to, for. Its
The first is principle. “Humans are the only seers in existence.” In other words, every male-female intelligence in existence
The foresight is in the post itself. The first proof of this is the innate imagination and freedom of action in every human being.


<newpage>

48 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Are active. It is only on the basis of imagination that humans can know the unknown and achieve the unrealized.
He considers hopes, thoughts and desires to be created within himself. It is in itself, from itself and its
Have to prepare for it. This is the basic point of spontaneous transformation towards awakening.

Now it has become very easy to understand that “human beings can study human beings.” this study
The mutual basis thing in the sequence is awakening. Every person can be a natural source of awakening.
Nature of awakening, evidence of behavior, evidence of knowing, believing, recognizing and carrying out activities are proved.
It has to be done. Human existence is inherently imaginative and independent of action. inspect it,
To conduct tests, surveys in oneself and other human beings and in a state of alertness, to test the other person.
Providing awareness along with solutions to become awakened is the practical proof of remaining awakened.

The entire object of knowing, recognizing and subsisting in human beings is the inanimate-conscious nature embedded in being.
And existence is a natural, co-existence-like movement. The movement of coexistence is the basis of all four states of existence.
It is understandable that spontaneous nature is present in an indivisible form. human experiencer in existence
It is in the verse, coexistence is ever present, this is the basis and source of understanding.

Development, life, awakening, chemical-physical composition in every human being, from, to, in the nature saturated with power.
Is suitable for study. Its basic reason is the conscious awareness of the present human being who is indivisible in existence.
Must be in position. This is originality. This is the main point. Human need to be awake, shape
And keeps the process rising and emerging. The testimony of this is to make the unknown known, the unattainable
Achieving is seen in the form of imagination, desire, thought, vision, perception and experience. Extreme
The important thing is that such desires are seen in different types in every human being. on this basis
But the right to desire good exists equally in every human being. Only after understanding this
To compensate for this, what is unknown can be known. What is unattainable can be attained. such a situation
To make it accessible to all, awakening the tradition is inevitable.

The influence of awakened human tradition is seen in the form of education, culture, constitution and system.

It is not possible to achieve the unattainable and know the unknown with the present traditional methods. hence existence
Contemplation, interview, thoughts, experience, behavior, system, constitution, study vs education of spontaneous glory-
Culture versus philosophy and knowledge: It became mandatory to live in a simple way and to be active. existence in this order


<newpage>

critical materialism 449

Philosophy, life knowledge, humane conduct, humane system, humane constitution, humane education, humane
Sanskar paves the way for everyone to be accessible. There is a need to take these basic principles to heart
Is. The basic principles have been understood only through the experience of a human being in the position of a seer.
, This earth is one (united nation), the states are many.

2. Power is one in broad form, Gods are many.

3. Human race is one, deeds are many.

4. Human religion is one, religions are many.

The above four principles of unity and diversity are understandable. existence in natural form or
Unity in the form of coexistence is self-evident. The confused beliefs of human community and these realities
The difference in opinion is clearly the problem.

Each one is complete with its environment. This earth is also complete including its environment. This physical-
The unit capable of chemical prosperity is in the process of evolution by its nature with zero attraction. This is one in itself
There is a system and is a participant in the whole of the solar array or the infinite solar array, it is in front of every human being.
Is. As a result of humans being in the position of observer, it is also easy to understand. to see the surface of the earth
But a land surrounded by sea and ocean is visible, in which forests, mountains, rivers and streams are clearly visible.
Is present.

Within this land, in the land surrounded by sea, more than one community has its own tradition.
As they currently appear. All of them also consider themselves the owners of individual plots. Whereas
There is no possibility that any power of theirs like labor planning, wisdom or knowledge is included in the structure of this earth.
The testimony of history is not visible in the present. The question of man is this earth only. Earth
Acting as a part of the infinite universe. This earth is monolithic in itself. completeness of
There is splendor. It includes imagination, fragmented imagination and process done by humans through any method.
Found to be contrary to the splendor of the earth. The testimony of this is the history of confused human beings. from is
It also became clear that despite being confused for so long, man could not disintegrate this earth. it
The earth could not disintegrate, this is the present testimony. The men living in this earth, the imaginary section-
The division can also be seen as a form of power-centric governance within the boundaries of sovereignty and in its integrity.
Came accepting. What could be a bigger illusion than this?


<newpage>

450 Mediator Philosophy Coexistence (Existential Human Centered Thinking)

Secondly, God is the naming of the existence, on this basis nature is immersed in God and divinity is
It is active only in Me and there is no possibility of its God being different. God like this
Broadly speaking, God is not the ruler or the ruled. This meaning is understandable to humans. this perfect
Nature is full of power. State of matter, state of life, state of life, state of knowledge, immersed in power, drenched,
It is seen surrounded. Also, even before this, power is visible. every one wet
gets certified in the form of glory and abundance of strength. Another fact can be understood from this that
Power is transitory. The human being who understands existence through these three types is the (innate) generality of existence.
Can't even imagine bringing it under the name. That's why it is necessary to give a comprehensive name.
Pervasiveness has to be present everywhere.

Authority cannot be divided. Therefore power is unbroken. human beings in power
Due to lack of knowledge, humans are resorting to many speculations and contradictory ideas in the name of God.
Showed. The complexity in the mutuality of these communities, that is, the complexity in meeting each other in the community.
As a result many misdeeds were seen. What could be a bigger illusion than this? Its testimony varied
In a way, this is human history presented.

Third, “Mankind is one action, many.” Fragmentation of the human race is not possible. attempt to disintegrate
To do is an illusion. Illusion results in problems, suffering, pain and fear. to consider humans as multiple species
The testimony was seen in the form of many traditions. This is basically the principle of oppression of man by man.
The reason happened. On the contrary, the innate testimony of the unity of the human race is found in every human being.
Imagination and action are freedom. Which can be understood by every person. second each
He is the embodiment of human denial, an optimist and a certifier of mental health. it
Is surveyed in every person. The unity of mankind also on the basis of equality of this glory
Makes sense. Third, man is independent while doing work and dependent while enjoying fruits - it is found that
Is. Every human action bestows its fruits, which result in happiness. same karma
The results result in happiness which is in the form of solution. Because every action of every human being,
The result proves to be either a problem or a solution. Even in these processes, humans should be treated equally.
Can see as. This is also the basis and witness to the unity of the human race.


<newpage>

critical materialism 454

“One human religion, many opinions” – Every human being has to think, behave and experience to be happy.
Looks in order. All actions done naturally by humans result in happiness or sorrow.
Is. This is well understood. Everyone understands this. It has also been observed that
That justice, solution (religion), truth, whatever actions and behavior are easy, their results are immediate and continuous.
It is visible only in the form of happiness. Its basic fact is that:-

() Justice itself is resolution – happiness in relationships in the form of value and evaluation.

Involvement in order and arrangement – ​​the solution – is happiness. Existential philosophy, truth as life knowledge
Daily solution-daily happiness.

It has been seen that this is understandable to every human being. Every person can easily understand these facts
Can be certified. Therefore, mankind can achieve a united society and universal society only on the basis of human religion.
One can understand the truth by uniting humans in the form of a system. Thus human religion is happiness. As such
Happiness, knowledge of life, philosophy of existence and conduct full of humanity are easily available. holistic solution human
Spontaneous “selfhood” is achieved. In proof of this, the system and participation in the system automatically provides justice, production,
There is an exchange related solution, as a result man becomes happy.

(2) Through family based method, family as a proof of being human, identification of relationships, values
Fulfills the need, resulting in a solution.

Through human education and culture, life-knowledge and philosophy of existence is naturally awakened.
'As a result, holistic solutions like coexistence in existence, development, life, awakening of life, chemical-
One gets clear knowledge regarding physical structure and composition. As a result, holistic solutions are easily
Expression occurs.

Humane conduct values, character and morality express simple indivisible solutions.
'As a result the solution is proved.

Health expresses awakening (sahaj) in a controlled manner, as a result, holistic solutions are available.

Is.


<newpage>

452 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In the process of human awakening and spontaneous expression, he is able to understand the cyclical economic system and survive.
Is able to do so, hence there is a solution.

An awakened human being becomes successful in his expression in a natural form and in his natural behaviour. It is about relationships, values,
It is certified as fulfilling the assessments, responsibilities and duties. Hence it is resolved.

This natural state and movement occurs in the attained existence of an awakened human being. That is, expression, communication and
Is published. As a result it is resolved.

An awakened human being behaves humanely and remains rich in knowledge of life and philosophy of existence.
Therefore, one remains aware of the constitution in the form of humane conduct and hence remains satisfied.

An awakened human being naturally possesses the evidence of awakened consciousness. Therefore human consciousness
Psychology i.e. mentality expresses the art of living in a simple form, as a result there is a solution.

Is.

Therefore, human beings can easily express their all-round solutions through their own awareness or through the awareness of life.
Yes, it makes sense. In this way, human religion is continuously present and expedient. awakening of human
There is initiation, there is aspiration. There is a possibility of this, hence awakening towards human religion is a necessity. In reality,
Human religion cannot be divided into pieces, because the universal system in the form of an unbroken society
This is human religion. The proof of solution is happiness, happiness is human religion. Thus from human, from human religion
There is no separation because the solution is universal. Therefore its effect of happiness is universal. solution monolithic
Yes, there is no division.

The conclusion of the logic and analysis which has been propounded above on the basis of existence and innate reality is
It turns out that this earth does not disintegrate, it remains unbroken. fragmented by illusion
The result of which is treason, rebellion, exploitation and war. united human society
And the function of the nation is solution, prosperity, fear, coexistence. After the human race has achieved this state
After this, there is no longer anything left in existence by name. The experience of the innate comprehensiveness of power,
There is a solution to the debates related to God. Only human beings should awaken and become infected with the status of Gods and Goddesses.
goes. This life is comprehensible through awareness. As a result, from the mysteries related to God, Gods and soul.
Becomes completely free. With this, no unknown object ceases to exist.


<newpage>

critical materialism 53

The innate integrity of human religion is an unbroken society and universal system. universal system human tradition
It is natural for it to be established in India and its continuation, hence the family-oriented system of self-rule.
In this the world family and the world system are easily accessible to the human race. just get it
The integrity of human tradition, sovereignty, sovereignty, humanity is natural enlightenment. We call it human life knowledge,
Existential philosophy knowledge and humane conduct knowledge can be obtained on the basis of natural originality.
Are. This will remove all the problems related to treason, rebellion, exploitation and war afflicting the human race. community
Human society unbroken by consciousness, every human being infected with consciousness, human tradition, spontaneous system.
Becomes easily accessible. This is the continuous celebration of solution, happiness and beauty in human tradition. this method
It also becomes clear that the community has been accepted in tradition on the basis of votes (i.e. crowd). Whereas
It is easily understood that human society exists naturally.

Mankind is one, it is basically based on the basis of human religion. castes based on karma
There was a bundle of troubles. From this it becomes clear that the existence of mankind lies in the glory of human religion.
Unity and integrity are understandable. The grounds of equality of mankind have been raised in various ways.
Has been explained.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

454 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

6) Publication and reflection

Everyone in existence is luminous. The root of luminosity is to be filled with power and strength.
Strength is the basic element of activity in everyone. Every action as labor, motion, result
is clear .

Power i.e. condition: In complete power we can see that all the things are connected and stable.
“Position” indicates strength. Is in force position. Power is present in the form of motion. position and speed
is indivisible. Speed ​​itself is known as power. Powers are revealed in even, odd and intermediate forms.
Hui can be seen. The entire state of the object, including its motion, is found to be present. to this
Named “positional”. The seed of development remains embedded in the situational nature, because the situation is complete.
It is easy for the nature to be implied in the completeness of, from, for.

() Image of image :-

Co-existence as an indivisible present, being present in situationality, being present in situationality.
Is visible. In other words, situationality appears to be present in situationality. On this basis we
It can be well understood that the situational nature remains active, this includes labour, movement,
The results are currently published and certified. All physical-chemical objects in existence,
In the form of participation in the system as a whole and certified in the system with its “essence” through the consequential method.
Is present. Being a participant in the system is always proven. Every unit's form, qualities, nature, religion are innate.
There is existence. They are reflected in oneness, mutually influenced, exchanged and
Is found to be evaluated.

On the basis of infinite angle richness in each, the image of the object is found to be in congruence.
Reflection in mutuality is the proof of mutual recognition of objects. on each other as qualities, powers
Affecting is also found. This is the area of ​​influence and influence. Both these verbs are seen in inanimate nature.
Meet. Evaluation in living nature i.e. identification of nature is seen in living beings. it
Especially Malory and it becomes clear in the form of opposition. The state of human knowledge is an innate splendor, hence
Exchange of dispositions in the form of values, evaluation of religion i.e. evaluation of solution, reciprocity


<newpage>

critical materialism 455

It is found to occur naturally. In living beings, nature is identified in one's lineage and lineage.
Manifestation is found in reciprocity.

The image itself is like a cube in shape, volume, etc. The frame of the unit is in this form or
Its limit is in this form. Each one remains limited from all sides. all of each one
And power is visible. Everyone appears to be in power, therefore surrounded, immersed
Is certified. Power is transitory. Each one is full of energy, strength and action. on this basis
But it is certified. Apart from these incidents, another amazing thing is worth keeping in mind that every
Existence is seen in reciprocity, which we call void, vastness, vastness, space etc.
Have given. It is all one thing, whose reality is present and pervasive. not a broad object,
There is no such place anywhere. This makes clear the truth, the fact that existence itself is pervasive.

Something can only be measured in relation to something else. All measurement management, human
It is the product of natural necessity and imagination. Every thing has its form, qualities, nature and religion and its
Is complete with environment. It is possible to measure shape, volume, cube. It is not possible to measure all the qualities.
It has become possible to measure even and odd charges. mediator force current and nature mediator in the origin of motion
Power is known to exist. It has not been possible to measure the intermediary power. while the intermediary power
He is the controller, humans can understand and explain it. On this basis, even and odd effects are reciprocated.
Is seen to happen. Quantitative changes are found in such influencing activities. all these things
In humans, it is understood only through the clairvoyant method. Justice, religion, true visions and imaginations in humans are illusions.
Despite being obscure, they run very far. On the basis of this, seeing is possible. to see
The meaning has to be understood. If you don't understand then you haven't seen it. The complete objects of understanding are-

status true,

object state truth,

Objective truth.

The truth of the situation is present in itself in the form of inanimate-conscious nature immersed in existence. whose wisdom
That is, philosophy is possible and proven only in humans, from, for, in which material state, vital state, living state
And the state of knowledge, all these states are found to be preserved and controlled in the power in an indivisible form.


<newpage>

56 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The objective situation truth is clear in the form of “direction, time, country”. There is direction in reciprocity. infinite angle in units
Are. Every thing is like the creation of the country itself. duration of action, form of tense, existence
There is human calculation in itself.

The objective truth is visible in each one including form, qualities, nature, religion.

Controlling interactions on the basis of form is seen in atoms, molecules and bodies composed of molecules.
On the basis of form and quality, the entire life state and all the creations created from the cells are controlled.
It is clear to stay. Being controlled on the basis of form, qualities and nature of life is seen. This 
It is appropriate to control the human being on the basis of appearance, qualities, nature and religion.

Image is easily illuminant and contains light, which is the difference between reflection and reflection.
I have glory. In reality, it is mutual confrontation, reflection and recognition. So, each thing has its own
It remains expressed with completeness. Reflection is an essential element for mutual understanding.
Reflection is indicative of an intermediary situation. The Earth is in an intermediate state, with completeness. Its
Reflection occurs everywhere. Similarly, all the things on earth are there in their entirety.
They always remain reflected. The Sun, the solar array, the infinite solar array are reflected on each other. Thus
Reflection is the form of mutual illuminance and light itself. Astu, revelation and reflection, motion or
There is no pressure. Although the qualities inherent in every object are found to be reflected. Like heat,
Magnetism, electricity, weight all affect each other. The area of ​​influence is also their glory.

On this basis, heat, magnetism and electrical effects are reflected. The natural motion of a heated object, which
It has become clear according to the sequence of development. For such a situation to be established, the entire atmosphere, including the earth,
Many low-temperature planets absorb much of the heat reflected from the round Sun. as a result sun
There is also a possibility of getting rid of excess heat through the complementation method.

Temperature is basically the same as the charge of a unit. The greater the internal charge in a planet-sphere
As it happens, it gets transformed into atomic species of smaller and smaller numerical fractions.
Is. In this sequence, the Sun which is in the form of an extremely hot image, all the objects present in it are of low numerical value.
Are present in the form of nuclear species only. As the Sun cools down,


<newpage>

critical materialism 57

According to this, atoms of many numerical species will be established. Thus reflection of heat in the sun
The reflection of the image becomes clear.

(2) Image has image, mirror image and retro-image:-

It is a simple truth that every object is reflected and remains illuminated. Hot ultimate in such reflection processes
There is also reflection of the image. Along with this there is reflection and counter-image. above which
The image remains, that object is also going to be reflected. On this basis the reflection method becomes clear.
Is. Whatever is reflected, each and every image, along with its set, is its
The mirror image is found to be the mirror image.

It can also be understood that one person has the image of four persons on him.
Reflection is included in all those images. All those who have been reflected before are now in reflection.
Are countable. The image also remains on the object on which the image falls. Similarly, reflection occurs
Is. By this method, the shadow of every opaque object itself, the image of the heated object, the reverse image, the reverse image.
In a systematic manner, gradually the length of the shadow becomes shorter. Where the length of the shadow ends
The shadow is not visible.

In this way, light can be assumed to be crooked, when in reality it is not. veracity
This means that the reflection and reflection of light are present on all sides of the shadow. rare molecules
But due to the spread of reflection and refraction, the shadow gets hidden in the light. This hot ultimate

The publishing method of the image is sequence. The reflection of low or normal temperature image is also naturally reciprocal.
I always live there.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

458 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

7) Properties, effects and power

Definition of quality: Computable motion or motion that can be calculated. When the meaning of quality
If it is motion, then why not use the name of motion, what is the need to take the name of quality?
The simple answer to this is that this existence is natural. The word quality definitely indicates speed, but
The whole does not count. Motions can be understood in even, odd and intermediate motions. uniform motions
They are certified in the course of development and qualitative development. Whereas heterogeneous movements are responsible for qualitative development.
Reduction in place makes the incident clear. The intermediary speed keeps them balanced. i.e. status quo
In maintaining it, in nourishing the status quo, it remains intact. These three types in the word guna
Motions can be addressed. That is why the word quality has been used. Thus it became clear
That the joint naming of even, odd and intermediate motion is the quality.

Force and motion are in this reference. Proof of strength in every thing, existence is effortless. in power
Being prosperous is the formula for prosperity, present in existence. Currently, complete atoms are found to exist
goes. Movement in itself is an explanation of transfer, a formula for change. force your situation intuitive explanation
Is. Thus, the definition and explanation of force and power is clear in the indivisible present itself. this human
It happens in me, in the earth, in the atom, in infinity. The sun is seen moving in the earth.
The sun image appears as it is. The Sun has made its natural position and movement clear, it can also be seen.
Could. Therefore, we can accept that position and motion are inseparable. in force position and
Speed ​​can be measured in power. Force has been identified as pressure and power as flow. Pressure
Indicators of position and flow speed. On this basis, electromagnetic forces etc. have been studied.
And have seen or can see in a universal form.

Force itself is also known as Guni because Guni and Guna are inseparable.
4. It is not possible to recognize a virtuous person without virtues and a virtuous person without virtues.

2. They are not divided.

3. It is not divided.

4. It cannot be divided.


<newpage>

critical materialism 59

Thus, from the science of development method, scientific rules, it is also a major rule that force and
Power is indivisible. Strength is virtuous and power is virtue.

On this basis, it is necessary to have force at the root of every power. Therefore the coexistence of power and force
By thinking acceptingly it becomes possible to understand the grandeur of existence. in a state of zero attraction
Each one becomes intact according to its position and speed. This is continuity of position and motion, harmony
The principle is. This can be understood by looking at the conditions of the Earth, Sun and planets. This earth is ours
Intact in condition, in motion. That is why its nature is proved to be in motion. These planets, circles and constellations
Looking at it also shows that all of them have zero attraction. result of being in zero attraction
This means that the nature in its form, its nature and its state remained intact. having zero attraction, nature
Speed ​​is prestige, the proof of this is that the earth itself is illuminated. In this sequence, another fact is found that zero
In the case of attraction, all the objects contained in each planetary sphere remain within the atmospheric boundary of the same planetary sphere.
remain there, whether those objects are in natural motion or in charged motion. The proof of this can be found by looking at the sun
Is. All objects in the Sun appear to be in a rare state. Any object located in a planetary sphere, if
If it can be charged, then it can be as charged as the object in the Sun. Despite this the sun
It is working only with its entire quantity (complete object).

We will pay attention to the reasons behind the charging of the objects contained in the planets and spheres. In every planet-circle,
Just as there is a certain amount of radioactive substances in this earth, all the states are found to be balanced.
going. Balance means the presence of all the states, or the presence of all four states.
From being and from the grandeur of evidence of coexistence in their interrelationships. This is also clear to humans
It means that the Sun has been calculated to be in its extreme state i.e. its hottest state. heat in the sun
The reflection of, reaching this earth is being seen. Sun (K) Sahaj Image's image, mirror image and
The image is being seen as light.

Humans confuse these radioactive materials located beneath the earth's surface and working in a complementary manner.
Are interfering by bringing it to the surface. Due to this, nuclear spontaneous mediating action (mediating force and power)
The charged particles become unable to balance and an explosion occurs. undigested atoms
It is found to be radioactive in nature. The definition of radioactive material is that radioactive atoms
Spontaneous heat or fire starts getting integrated into the atoms. It is also clear from this formula that


<newpage>

60 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In the charged (interfered) state, the pressure of internal heat becomes so high that it causes nuclear
The liquid reached an explosive state.

It now seems logical that the charges were built up in the most dense atoms in the Sun. as a result
Nuclear explosion started. Its impact became the basis of the explosion. In this way everything contained in the sun
Got busy in liquid and explosion work. Today's top scientists on earth are in favor of this, saying
It has been found that the amount of nuclear explosives versus atom bombs currently placed in the sky, on the earth and in the sea
If there are explosions in them, then the situation of nuclear explosion of each atom will be sequentially.
She will come.

It can be imagined in another way, these scientists on this earth, the nuclear explosion theory
Have understood well. Have become adept in detonating it and also preparing for it.
Have taken. This much is our living, visible fact. Hence, in the sun naturally, this earth
As soon as all four stages are developing. In this world, like a scientist because of his glory,
All measures have been taken to transform this earth like the Sun, similarly such preparations have been made in the Sun too, scientists
Have you done? This experiment has not been proven here yet. If the experiment is proved there, then in that case it
It can be said that only the best scientists have accomplished such tasks.

“The original object from which the object is made is similar to its original object” like-

() No matter how many things are made from clay, they are all the same as clay. their neither quantitative
There is no change, nor is there any qualitative change. Change is considered development or decline
Is. Of all the types of objects that exist in matter, even through the combination of more objects, objects
Even if we look at it after making it, all the things that come in combination are similar to the original things.

The creations made or created from Prana Kosha are in their original form similar to Prana Kosha.

di

It happens. Life cells are basically the expression of chemical splendor. form of chemical elements
They are material things only. In chemical change, elemental molecules of more than one species change their form.
By abandoning all the conducts, we become ready for the third type of conduct. this till then
We are able to keep ourselves busy in activities, as long as the materiality present remains favourable. When


<newpage>

critical materialism 464

Whenever its suitability is lost, or it changes into an unfavorable form, then adverse physics occurs.
Chemical activity and chemical splendor are not seen in the atmosphere.

Just as no chemical splendor is visible on the Moon, similarly such activity is possible in the Sun.
Not there. Therefore, being materialistic is an essential condition. physical activity to achieve such favorable conditions
Let's make it. This evidence is evident in this earth. Similarly, life cells, chemical programs, creations
In form and chemical splendor i.e. physical suitability i.e. physical objects for chemical substances
Achievement, all these things were understood only then. This makes it clear to us and makes it easier to study.
and it is believed that whenever chemical substances achieve deceleration, physical objects
Remain in form.

That is why the history of creation and destruction makes it clear that from the state of matter to the state of life
There is sublimation and from prana state to material state there is sublimation. This is the length, breadth of Pranapada Chakra,
Is the height. The cells of the vital state are different in their nature from physical objects. of chemicals
Are same. Chemical substances that have contributed to the creation of life or the creation of life
Whatever quantity of chemicals remains in the form, they all have the same properties and quantities.
It can happen only in liquid. All the things that are included in the chemical splendor are all made up of other substances.
Favorable and unfavorable events appear in variable form. Basically these are material things. Like milk is the latter juice.
Basically it is a physical thing only. Similarly, water, similarly acid-base etc., Pushti Tattva, Pushti Rasa, these
Basically all the things express themselves through chemical activities like wheat, rice, pulses,
Fruits are visible in other forms. Due to definite quantitative combination of alkali, acid and putti rasas like - sour, sweet,
Humans taste it in forms like spicy etc. All creations composed of Astu, Rasayan and Pranakoshas
Life is like cells, no matter how different their compositions may be.

In this sequence, the basic issue of taking decisions after observing is to understand the fundamental nature of Prana Kosha.
All the creations composed by him have to be examined to see whether they exceed him or not. This
In the process it was found that in every vital cell the fundamental expression, which is expressed in a marked form in the material state,
Was not there, that is respiratory function and reproductive function. This is the fundamental function of the Prana Kosha. from life cell
Only this work can be seen. The work of creation, the process of creation, has been completed in the material state,


<newpage>

62 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Which the human saw. In this way, any behavior expressed in the vital state more than in the material state, is
Is- respiratory process and reproductive process. So, basically the life cells are similar.

Man is able to see that the creations of life on earth are food plants, big trees, plants, creepers,
It is visible in the form of lump etc. After this, all the body structures present in the living state,
It is composed of life cells and human body is also composed of life cells. human
Even the body in its form is no more than a life cell. It is similar to the life cell. life cell
In this, breathing is fundamental and on the basis of the creations i.e. the creations in which one has to participate.
Or they have to be sustained - those creation method formulas are contained in the life cells. original form of composition
The physical structure is seen in sequence. In this sequence, the method of creation of life cells is formulated in life cells.
lives . The cells in which participation takes place are of two types -

, seminal formula,

2. Hereditary formula.

According to the hereditary formula, the formula of terrestrial, aquatic, aquatic and lineage, in the order of those species,
It is seen in the form of sperm-ovum formula. Whatever comes from the life cells before the sperm-ovum formula.
The created body has been functioning, all of them are seen in the form of indigenous beings (indigenous beings i.e.
Born of sweat). By this method, the interbreeding system of sperm and ovum system, its
In the first plants, on the basis of substance, there was female pollen, on the basis of male pollen, there were seeds and
The presence of trees is seen from here. Most of the time it is seen in this manner. living bodies, human
In bodies, the method of formation of embryo and complete organ components on the basis of embryo and fetus is based on the combination of egg and sperm.
Can be seen. Its place of formation is arranged in the uterus. Medhas creation also in such body structure
There is a main part. Rich complete medhas creation is found in human anatomy itself. heart etc all
The complete originality of the body including its vital organs and breathing is the achievement. original life cell
Even in India, respiration has been the basis of fundamental identity. Similarly, after human anatomy also
The same amount of originality was seen.

It is life itself that sustains such a body. Which is in the form of hope, thought, desire, reward and evidence.
Only the body is proved in operation. Such a life keeps the body alive. hope etc
The senses can operate accordingly. With this method, it is easy for body and life to be united.


<newpage>

critical materialism 63

Used to be. Life, according to itself, requires the human body to express awakening perfection in the order of awakening.
Operates. This is attested in tradition. In order to provide vitality to life, body, illusion
Starting to consider the body as life, the seeker of justice (desirous of getting justice) and the right behavior
It is not easy to fulfill the meaning of life when you are willing to do it and are in a position to speak the truth.
Is. Due to lack of awakened tradition yet, some people become awakened only accidentally.
For which unexpected methods have to be adopted. By tradition, expectation of life, justice delivery
To prove the capability, direction, knowledge, philosophy and conduct must be found as evidence in the tradition.
It is the basic requirement that every student should get education in a cultured manner.

Along with this, the ritual system of completing the practice along with the proofs for correct work-behavior, work
Only when the system is accessible to everyone from tradition and can be experienced in the ultimate truth of co-existence.
The glory of human tradition is proved only when the path becomes clear. To bring such a tradition,
To be established, resolution materialism is a link. And in this sequence this fact should be taken into account
There is an essential element that that which remains, that is, that which is created, no matter how big
There should be a creation, basically: whatever the object is, it is the entire creation. Like - this earth is definite numerical
The entire earth, composed of different species of atoms, molecules and cells, is similar to that.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

64 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

8) Artificiality, nature and creativity

Nature of artificiality:- The change that man wants to bring in nature through his labor planning,
If that change is not evident in the tradition, it is accepted as artificiality.

In this sequence, all types of instruments and items related to food, shelter and ornaments are seen. All
The operation of machines is seen on the basis of fuel method, magnetic method and electrical method. these three types
Human inspired operated devices are also certified in the form of remote listening, remote viewing and remote viewing. these three types
The unit represented is the human being. Its creator is also human. such construction works are creative
It is said. Both types of aspirations for the satisfaction of one's sensitivity through human evolution.
The complete outline of what is naturally present in humans has been proved. Like food, shelter,
Decorating items and equipment. Second, items and equipment related to tele-listening, television and telecommunication.
The method of preparation, process and evidence were obtained. In this sequence, the instruments related to summer system
Well received. But the satisfaction point of sensitivity could not be found. achieving all this
After this, “understanding” humans is now the main issue. Because humans are the ones who are responsible for all kinds of needs.
He is the creator and consumer of goods. In order to use or utilize all the things properly.
Being social is proven.

Universality cannot be achieved by living according to one's interests. Interests are always limited to the senses
It has become clear. The grandeur of human living or the grandeur of human living easily, unbroken society, universal
Can be certified as a system. Whatever the characteristics of living as communities, all these
The man misusing the resources, especially things related to tele-listening, television, etc.
Is visible. Misuse means treason, rebellion, exploitation, war, crimes and manipulation.
This is due to promotions, because all instruments are seen as providing speed. Man his hands and feet,
In order to increase the speed of whatever we have been doing with our eyes and words, thousands and lakhs of times.
The use of devices like remote listening, remote viewing, remote viewing has become prevalent in human tradition.
Whatever will be communicated in these will be the movement and depiction of human mentality, actions and tendencies.
Are. In ancient times the tendencies are evident in the form of fear, temptation, faith and conflict. Of this temptation and
Faith is accepted in humans, most people do not accept fear and struggle.


<newpage>

critical materialism 65

() Increase in speed due to artificiality and misuse of power due to lack of understanding of humans: -

By this method man is not able to express himself socially and systematically.
Till then, due to all these instruments and equipment, the speed of problems or the number of crimes keeps increasing.
To artificially rule nature including human beings with the mentality of own-strangers through communal method.
There is only crime and make-up in their mentality. This is the medium and purpose of propagation
Only convenience collection will be created. Therefore, until a unified society and universal system is established, human
Due to this, it will not be possible to utilize these devices properly. Therefore, it is good for human society and system.
The use of all these instruments only after proper understanding and proper use can bring prosperity to every family.
Will be found for human tradition.

(2) Definition and examples of artificiality: -

All such things that humans have created are called artificial. primarily human
In which labor employment is possible, by the coincidence of which i.e. by employment of human labor on natural opulence.
We create such a situation that the work is completed as per the wishes of the human being. This is what we call artificiality
It is said that a house is built by mixing iron with cement. All the things in it are natural. all things
Being natural, the labor employed in making cement, in which the items were combined, resulted in cement.
The form of is obtained. This achievement is called artificial. Iron in its natural form is
It becomes a necessity only to mold the human being into the desired shape and form. to make it successful
In this order, labor planning is done on natural wealth, as a result, iron is available to man in the desired form.
Seems like This has been named creativity. The soil is shaped into the shape of walls by laborious planning.
It is provided which is called creativity. In this way, making all the instruments is also easy for nature.
By planning labor on objects and giving them the desired shape or imagined form, it is our relationship with creativity and
The object obtained artificially recognizes both of them. In this creative sequence, human labor planning itself,
Is the main element. Artificiality is unfavorable for development and awakening whereas creativity is beneficial for development and awakening.
It is a process carried out through supplementary method to authenticate.


<newpage>

66 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

(3) Basic formula of prosperity :-

The ability to employ labor always remains in humans. Life forces are inexhaustible, hence human
It has the right to produce more things than required. inexhaustible power in humans and
Inexhaustible power is recognized, this formula is the basis for human prosperity.

(4) Experience intuitive understanding in coexistence - solution. artificial farming tradition, artificial road
etc. construction > futility.

Prosperity is experienced only with solutions. The solution is basically: coexistence makes common sense.
Coexistence is simple luxury. Existence is the ultimate truth. Existence is the natural nature of existence.
In this way existence, innate understanding, is the solution itself, this is a three-timeless truth. only humans are intelligent
Lives with or wants to live or is bound to live because without wisdom man cannot understand himself.
It is not possible to express. Every human wants to express himself. human suffering from problem
Suffers. In this way man does not like the problem or else does not want to. on these grounds
Solution is man's refuge, glory and expectation. Solution: Existence is simple. existence as it is
In the state of understanding, only the solution becomes difficult for the human being. The solution to all human creativity
Whatever has come into this form through wisdom, its swelling also has a definite purpose, like:-

Agricultural work – It is found to occur naturally in order to obtain food for the human body. Diet
Related problems are solved. Only with such solutions agricultural traditions prosper. with agriculture
Man has adopted the methods of land conservation, water conservation, seed conservation along with seasonal coincidences i.e. earth,
Seed combination methods were recognized and enriched. These include material state, prana state, living state and
There was belief in the interconnectedness of the state of knowledge and the present.

As another example, humans have constructed various types of houses. roads and bridges
Made it. The fuel combination was artificial in the manufacturing process of fused cement iron. in
Looking at the artificialities, it becomes clear that human labor can be employed only on the material surface (Earth).
Is. On the basis of these labor planning, artificiality came to be considered as creativity. This 
The concept and hope of conquering nature was based on illusion. These imaginations in human
It has been proven meaningless, that is, it is not logical.


<newpage>

critical materialism 467

(5) Coexistence with nature is the solution. It's supposed to happen in humans, not convenience stores.
In, nor in instruments :-

Along with the creativity mentioned above, in general terms also in the context of instruments and equipment like railway motors etc.
Attention was given. By keeping all these contexts in mind, we realize that we
Can make a hole, it is not control over nature. We can turn mountains into plains, it depends on nature.
There is no victory. We can establish our communication even at the bottom of the sea, this is not possible on nature.
Victory did not happen. This nature is an expression of coexistence with innate non-human nature, while
This coexistence is not being maintained by humans.

Coexistence On this earth, basically the state of matter, the state of life, the state of life and the state of knowledge are inseparable.
Remains present in form. Only such simple things in material form as clay, stone, gem, metal are found most.
It is found that it remains organized in quantity. Due to these truths, man has developed his imagination,
In an effort to portray freedom of action in various ways, various instruments and equipment were prepared.
Housing, ornamentation, etc. works were also enriched. Human beings have developed the natural state of matter, “use” of things.
Complete instruments have been obtained through “coincidence method”. There is not even a single instrument obtained from this material state.
Be helpful for survival. On the other hand, humans have adopted housing as a convenience out of necessity,
Used Alankar, teleshravan, telecast, tele-darshan. Most of them include things like tele-listening,
Things related to television and telecommunication did not become the basis of any solution. Along with this, housing i.e.
Just by building the biggest house, that house does not become the basis of solution. too much diet
And just by collecting the materials related to ornamentation (grain, gold, silver) these things become the basis of the solution.
Nothing happened as if it had happened. In essence, accumulation of goods is no longer a solution. Solution
The basis of human awakening is only natural splendor.

(6) Solution existence in humans is the experience and proof of spontaneous coexistence: -

These interrelationships in human coexistence are resolved in the form of knowing, accepting, recognizing and living.
It happens. From the state of matter to the state of life; Complementarity, sublimation and interrelation of material state with prana state.
In the form of complementarity and prosperity, this is the solution. Its viewer is only human. from life to life
The body compositions of Prana Sutra method are based on sublimation in Sutra method and lineage in place of seed tradition.


<newpage>

68 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

The establishment and continuation of tradition is visible. No such device has been seen yet
Till now, through tireless efforts, he has been able to bring about qualitative changes from the seeds. In quantity, in number; quality
Meaningful in the sense of the purposes. Stushi was confirmed, it resulted in quantitative change only and not qualitative confirmation.
Whereas all the efforts were for qualitative change only.

The seeds obtained for this purpose prove that it has no proven lineage.
Is. As far as thickness or quantity is concerned, it keeps increasing and decreasing. all the hard work like this
Expenditure on farming is increasing more and more in the name of deception and fraud, improved seeds and improved fertilizers through business methods.
Went. Big industries became big, farmers could not paint their houses white. whiten clothes
Couldn't, leave alone bringing a cart or horse. Among farmers, only those farmers are considered clever who
Apart from this, the business method has also been adopted. Therefore, farming is the right production activity for food purposes.
It is only there. It is necessary to identify such a system so that farmers can experience true prosperity.

(7) Failure to increase food production through artificial methods. This is possible only with proper environment:-

No matter how much labor and resources were employed under the state-of-the-art seed improvement programs,
No other definite results could be found accordingly. Efforts are made in the seeds in favor of improving the quality of seeds.
Is. It can also be said that an effort to enhance the qualities remains in the seed nature itself. Its
Establishing a favorable environment for development is the best possibility for quality enhancement and continuity.
Have to become. Earth, air, fertilizer, water and heat are the main elements in the atmosphere. by the coincidence of all this
The seed exists among many seeds like itself and in the form of a superior seed. from mineral alkali and acid elements
Whatever fertilizer is considered, is not fertilizer but helps in stimulating the earth's surface and helps in nourishing the plants.
It is definitely a temporary help in storing Pishtha in place of Pishta. On the contrary it is also seen
It has been said that due to the chemical reaction occurring due to the combination of acid and alkali, in the earth and plants as mentioned above
There is definitely tension. Most of this is used to make the earth alkaline and acidic.

In this sequence, the common man mistakenly feels as if the crop yield has increased. all that chemical
The volume appears to increase depending on the revolution. Those quantities are ultimately most useful
It has also been seen to be adverse for the human body. Therefore to get balance in this like-
As the farming revolution expanded, the need for cattle rearing, animal husbandry, fertilizer manufacturing works


<newpage>

critical materialism 69

A need was felt to adopt advanced methods. By recognizing this it is natural that these acidic
Alkaline fertilizers can also avoid problems. Although organic fertilizers also contain acid and alkali.
is found . This happens in the same proportion in which the crop is harvested.

Second, the acid base obtained through organic fertilizer method is already digested by the compounds created by life cells.
is found to be. In this way, organic and plant based fertilizer methods are based on chemical
Periodicity remains organized naturally, whereas it is organized artificially through mineral-derived acid-base method.
Whatever substances and substances are there, they have an impact in a stimulating manner. provide momentary stimulation
The maximum amount of combination of acid and alkali required to do this is required for the earth.
Makes acidic and alkaline. This wastage remains. That is why the earth is found to be deformed.
Whereas being fertile is essential for this earth. Thus artificially helping the earth
The process of drafting a constitution has been described above. This shows that this
The acidic-alkaline fertilizer method (chemical fertilizers) is only going to destroy the earth. acids of the whole earth
And if we spread alkali in the field on the basis of today's profit craze, to what extent will this be justice? next generation
What will she do?

In this way, humans get trapped in the trap of their own profit-obsessed, sensual and pleasure-obsessed illusions.
It has proved fatal for generations and the undertaking of becoming fatal is still being made. This
This type of artificial fertilizer (chemical fertilizer) has proved fatal for human culture and for the earth, it
It became clear. It has evolved from the state of matter, the natural splendor along with the life state, without artificiality.
It is clear what disasters have occurred as a result of the coincidence. In the same sequence, it is also being seen that tomato
It was made much bigger but its internal supporting elements remained the same as in natural form.
Received was in a small tomato. The rest of the container filled with water as the tomatoes thickened. like this
Seen in grapes. On the basis of all these experiences, it is decided that whatever happens in natural form
Seeds established through seed-conservation method have to be conserved; for this, biological and plant-based methods are used.
The only solution is to adopt fertilizer method. For this, animal husbandry along with agriculture was found to be necessary.


<newpage>

70 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

(8) Considering the naturalness of existence as artificiality also became a reason for crime: -

Now basically what is the essence of all these things like artificiality in nature and victory over nature? these things
In order to give a conclusion, it has been discussed and made an issue of analysis. The arguments presented above and
On the basis of analysis, man transforms the objects of life according to his own imagination, which is called artificiality.
It is not meant to help, transform, or achieve any goal in that vital state of innate nature.
Made. Therefore we come to the conclusion that nature is the combination of objects of natural material state.
There was a possibility of getting things related to accommodation, decoration, tele-audience, television and tele-portation by a combination of means.
Man got it. Various types of magnificent material objects come into existence by chance, by combination
It was easy to express my nature's qualities in the qualities of a coincidence. Like the amount of force required to lift a stone
He could get up, he remained ready for that. Similarly, the quality of going that far with that much force,
Remained embedded in the same stone. That's why he left.

Similarly, words, properties, reflection of forms, magnetic properties, electrical properties, thermal properties all have their own
Only reflective work remained to be done as per merit. The combination of all these is evidenced by the species of mechanization.
What happened which was published by humans is not an artificiality but an innate naturalness of existence.
Only creativity remained. Accepting it as artificial is an anti-human, anti-nature, anti-human trend.
The basis was established. In this way, nature does not consider natural manifestations of spontaneous qualities, movement, strength and grandeur.
By understanding it, just by understanding it artificially, it has created a basis for criminalizing the human race. This also
Was it artificial or was it the result of artificiality? The more man became artificial, the more he became closer to nature.
He kept committing crimes or bowing down, hiding or getting scared. Similarly, treachery against humans-
A rebellious conspiracy was hatched and as a result human beings were found to be unhappy. Such pain is physical,
These were seen in the form of strange mental diseases or anomalies. With this, humans can easily
Wants to be released. The simple solution for this is - “Human beings are indivisible in their existence”.
Know, accept, recognize and live. This is the same method. Artificiality - monopoly, mercantilism
Is mercantilism. Creativity is universalized. This Jagriti sequence in the Jagrit tradition, from to
Is found to be beneficial.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism 474

9) Hybridization and tradition

In this century, by experimenting with the process of hybridization, humans have seen as far as possible how diverse
Seedling transplant method and stem transplant method - These two methods are used in both flowers and fruits.
Happened. In fruit species, both seedling transplantation and stem transplantation were successful. Hybrid method also in this
Achievements were achieved with the methods adopted like orange, orange, apple, plum etc. yet most of them,
They do not seem capable of maintaining their lineage. as if in some implanted method
There was a mango tree, but the same type of mango was not prepared from its seed. This process of mango tree, very
Has been there before also. Similarly, it was seen in fruits like apple, guava, pineapple, peach etc. and lemon.
If seeds of the best variety are sown in orange, lemon, guava and do not yield fruits of the same variety, seedlings
And humans have succeeded in the process of changing the stem. stem that remains implanted, shoot that remains implanted
Lives, the fruits arising from it were seen to be successful.

As far as whatever methods were adopted in flowers, the desired form in shape and type was transplanted.
Colour, form (shape) obtained. It was also observed that these transplant methods
The flowers started losing their fragrance. Also there was loss in nectar and pollen quality, hence transplantation
did not succeed. In fruits, it has been seen that the fruits and flowers obtained from transplantation do not survive in their descendants.
Are not able to make it, that is, they are not able to make it suitable for their seed. transplanted from generation to generation
The need remains. This is also possible in fruits and flowers.

Hybridization was observed in species. To establish lineage through hybridization like cow and buffalo
Also worked in role. Dependence on their climate and food habits increased. take care of it human
It became necessary to keep. They can fill their stomach in their own, natural way, fulfill their purpose.
Can prove that it did not happen. In case of their imbalance i.e. whenever humans
Along with failing to pay attention, imbalance was seen in them. It has also been observed that the animals which
Work in the barns, get your fill of nature and cure common diseases through your diet.
You can cure yourself only with patience. This type of ability was not seen in hybrid animals. in these
The diseases that occur become very complex. These are not able to heal on their own. human to fix them
It is more important to pay attention to these things rather than whether one has become very capable or not. Thus these


<newpage>

472 Mediator Philosophy Coexistence (Existential Human Centered Thinking)

In cows of this breed, subordination was more common. It was also observed that there was more milk in these
Is accomplished. But its quality reduces. A comparative thing emerged between them and
That they are not able to establish the quality in their descendants, gradually the quality falls, becomes less.
She goes. Whereas in the natural form, the tradition of cows is that they also give a lot of milk. cow buffalo tradition
They seem capable of maintaining their lineage.

In this century, the issue of hybridity was also thought about in humans. The main issue in this is the creative creation of human beings.
In some cases, efforts were made to have voluntary control. To a supremely intelligent person, in his own body,
Efforts were also made to create many bodies on the basis of life cells. no one special in such efforts
Didn't get success. This effort is based on the structure of the body, according to the materialistic thinking that came in the past.
But in order to recognize human development, it was thought and done. no one can do all this
Didn't get success.

Some people believe that there is racial change in humans through hybridization. They think that race
There are good and bad people on the basis, basically the human body and life are combined in this form.
The reason is in the combined form of human life and body of all types, black and white, thick and thin, tall and short.
Is controlled. Whatever change or awakening has to happen in human beings, has to happen in life itself. in life
The evidence that change is taking place is wisdom. Wisdom and values ​​are present in life itself. Life,
It is certified by the body. Life is expressed in the same way in all types of humans mentioned above.
It is easy. Because every type of person understands and has understood mathematics. understands physiology,
Understands Botany, the understanding that an individual of one species has, is available to all species.
It has been found to occur in individuals. With this understanding, every type of person has the natural right to understand.
They appear similar in form. This is the fundamental element in the human race, on the basis of this the unity of human beings,
Integrity is an innate formula. Unity and integrity based on diversity of human anatomy
It is not possible to even imagine. Therefore, human innate unity is evident on the basis of equality in life.
It happens. Whereas due to change of race or change in body shape, human
Unity and integrity cannot be achieved.

Existence is inherently human, imaginative and action is independent. On this basis, human existence is fundamental.
The study has become accessible. It is on the basis of this originality that awakening can systematically transform human beings into a


<newpage>

critical materialism 73

The need of the hour is to be certified as a judicial, settled, authentic tradition.
Hence, believing in one's own wisdom in the form of knowledge of life and philosophy of existence is the beginning of awakening.
Are. In such an understanding, awakened human being to recognize the integrity of existence and co-existence.
It has become possible.

This is proved by knowledge of life, existence philosophy and humane conduct.

Life cells are not artificial:- Life cells are basically the gift of chemical wealth. chemical substance
It has become clear that only material things have a sublimated form. chemical substance itself natural
Is liquid. Even if humans accidentally cause a chemical event, that too is natural, because
The basic matter is of the same state of matter whether it is solid, liquid or rare. by combination of different chemicals
Chemical composition in the form of life cells or also in the form of chemical basic composition cells.
it occurs. Pranakosha, which is composed in a solid form, contains the Prana Sutra along with its active implementation.
lives. In this sequence, cells are found to be filled with chemical juices. This means that
Due to the condition immersed in chemical juices and the pressure of heat, the life cell is basically composed of chemical substances.
Along with respiration, it completes the work of synthesis and synthesis. This life sheath creation and glory
Means. The cell which performs the respiratory process is known as Prana Kosha. such life cells
You multiply, that is, the method of becoming two from one cell, like this, lies in the life cells.
Are. This polymerization method is also a spontaneous activity of chemical splendor.

Chemicals are available in liquid, liquid and solid forms. Chemical substance is a substance formed by the combination of different molecules.
Atoms are found at the core of molecules. The arrangement of each atom with its own “Self” is simple.
Is in the form. On the basis of this, molecules can be formed by the combination of atoms and also by the combination of different molecules.
Becomes clear. The system is the present spontaneous behavior in the inanimate and animate nature. this behavior coexistence
There is participation in the overall system in the spontaneous order. In this sequence, composed of chemical substances and life cells.
All creations follow their own traditions and natural methods. arrangement of each unit in itself
The behavior of being is seen intact in the present, like the atoms and molecules of iron.
Staying present with “irony” is found. Its integrity is certified. a life cell and
The creations composed by them are certified as systems with their own “tva”. Composition formula of such life cells
Remain prosperous. There are definite formulas for its systematic composition. In the life cell itself, of that species


<newpage>

474 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Even in the infinite life cells, the compositions are found to be determined on the basis of the life formula. This “tva”
There is evidence of participation in the inclusive system and the overall system.

Every cell including the Prana Sutra is a cell in the form of a system with its own “tva”. as a result of any creation
Combined publication is totality. It is clear that every life cell is a participant in such totality. so
Every life cell is a participant in the overall system. Seed-tree in the form of life cell having arrangement within itself
The rules remain in force. This is the proof of the system including “Twa” in the life cells. flora, fauna and
These same structural principles are present in the human body. Vital state by Prana Sutra method, Seed-tree rule method
All the creations of are clear. Each creation is a complete creation in itself, with many other creations.
Coexistence can be seen. Like mango, neem etc., many species of trees, plants, creepers etc.
All with each other, seeing the seed-tree rules publishing certain shapes and behavior.
gets to.

In this sequence, despite being a combined embodiment of life, a body rich in nectar and life,
The body is accepted by the method of identification. Its formula is – life, keeping the body alive
It accepts the body as its place of living. Therefore, the life forces are those body structures.
Is able to flow accordingly. On the basis of this reality, the existence of many species of organisms is clear.
Is. All these are in the present only. The creatures of each species live in their own way, maintaining their traditions.
Gets to see. Every organism, due to its own system, is associated with the organism of its species.
Is included. With this, organisms of one species can live with organisms of many other species.
What happened can also be seen. It also became clear that the entire vegetation of one species is different from that of another species.
Was seen to be present along with the flora. and organisms of one species to another species
Got to see living with living beings. All these activities naturally involve rules, control, balance.
Became prosperous with methods.

In the material state, it is natural to remain controlled in the tradition of results and activities. in vital state
It is proved that the entire creations can be controlled and balanced by the seed-related method, Peepal leaf, tree
And roots, similarly other shrubs, plants, creepers etc. have their own types of leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds and
It is found to be rooted. All these indicate control in the creative work. rules remain under control
It is because chemical compound and splendor are found to occur only as per the rules. In every chemical process,


<newpage>

critical materialism 75

Combination of molecules of more than one species has been observed. These molecules operate in certain quantities and according to rules.
Come in coincidences. As a result, chemical splendor is evident. Basically atoms and molecules in the state of matter are regular
It is found to remain. Control was manifested in life on the basis of this rule only. this control
This has become clear in the form of rotation from seed to tree and from tree to seed. no such thing in existence
Which is not controlled or regular. Therefore, being regular and controlled is atomic and atomic.
It is also seen in such situations. This same rule is used in the creations of Pranavastha in the form of control.
It has become clear from the recurrent method.

Creations in life are a witness to control. Whereas the organs in the body structures of the living state and the state of knowledge
Balance of ingredients is necessary. Therefore control in the creations of living bodies and human body
And the rule remains intact. In this sequence, each one has its own “tva” as a system.
It is found to be glorious. The body structures of the state of life and the state of knowledge are responsible for success through hereditary method.
Publishes. Important role of lineages based on sizes and functions of senses and organs
is found to be certain. Composition of its body parts for coordination of shape, volume and function
It is found to be proportional. Their work is based on balance, life is based on simple hope and medhas kriya.
Is found to be prosperous. The behavior of every living being is naturally explained by its own body.
Is. It is on the basis of such an explanation that organisms of each species can maintain their originality in the arrangement and arrangement.
It is seen becoming meaningful in the sense of participation.

The shape of each organ and component is the main identity of the lineage. With this identity his
Work is understood to be accomplished only by the coincidence of life. Life, living beings, transmission of hope
Is seen doing it. Every living being is found alive only by the hope of living. state of knowledge
To understand the functioning of powers like hope, thought, desire, Ritambhara and Pramana in spontaneous human life.
gets to. It is only human who can understand this. Life and body are proof of man's status as a seer.
is proved in joint form. In the process of understanding, the unknown can be known and the unrealized can be achieved.
Only humans carry out these activities easily. Existence as visible is ever present
Is. All four states of existence are a unique expression of themselves. Activities of living beings, their species
The work remains in a definite form according to the lineage. This is the meaning of balance. in the observer position in human existence
Despite this, human activity is still uncertain. The human body is also made up of balanced components.


<newpage>

76 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

is published only. In this way, all the plants, living beings and the human body are created from the life cells.
Understandable.

Seven metals are found in living beings and human bodies that live in a combined form of life and body.
Are. The human body is the supremely balanced composition of the seven metals. Compositions containing sweet and unsweetened medhas
Life does not run or they are not capable of running. Seven metals are not seen in them.
Those creations are created from the life cells only. All trees and plants are composed of life cells.
There are no seven metals in these. With all these proofs, life and body are united with the same body.
It is possible to have a body in which the seven metals are composed with the aim of balancing the body parts and
The creation of rich medhas and prosperous medhas is accomplished. This is how the body is governed by life.
Gets to see. In this sequence, all the life cells that are seen are duly chemically formed.
Appear as splendor. There can be no artificiality with this. to give shape to anything artificial
All the material things that are created by human beings are seen only in the form of simple things. chemical
Action is natural, not artificial, hence life cells are natural, not artificial.
it occurs. The creations created from life cells are natural in nature, not artificial.

Nature implies - already remains in the form of verb. This is called nature. action from before
And the object, motion and situation remained the same, it became natural for that action to happen. man
Nature can easily make many events happen on its own. Therefore want to call it artificiality
Are. It cannot become meaningful because it already exists. This is how the life cells are now
It has already been said in this regard. At the same time, life cannot be created through artificial process. Life
Whenever it happens, that atom can be proved only in its complete form.

Formation of atoms is a natural spontaneous process. Completeness in such a formation. Definite action in the same atom.
The result of is the event. Therefore it is not possible for humans to reduce life (i.e. to generate life).
And it is not even necessary. Similarly, it is not possible for humans to reduce the life cells.
Is and is not necessary either. Along with the body and life activities currently found in
Man's awakening becomes the only goal. There is no way to create artificial cells and artificial life.
The goal is not achieved. Therefore the need does not materialize and hence the opportunity also does not materialize.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism 77

0) Industry, Need, Relationship and Balance

By observing human beings, it becomes clear that the needs of human beings are manifested through family and human method.

Are. Family human means recognizing more than one intelligent human relationship in a complementary manner.

As a result, needs appear automatically. Meaning of apparent - to be proven in every form

The effort is rising. It expects complementarity in every two or more human interactions,

You believe that only in such a situation can the needs be understood. As it is known and accepted,

'As a result of efforts, progress is found. In the process of efforts on natural wealth especially forests,

Employment of labor on minerals, resulting in transformation of natural wealth into necessity

goes.

4. If you want to cover your body with leaves, then proper procedure will have to be done for that. That's why I covered my body with leaves.
The need will be fulfilled.

2. If the body has to be covered with barks of trees, then proper procedure will have to be done to reach that situation also.
Only then will the body covering be made.

3. When the time came to cover the body with cotton, the proper procedure for it was proved by humans.
'As a result, the human body was seen covered with cloth.

4. If a house is made from leaves, a house is made from straw, a house is made from bushes, a house is made from leaves and flowers.
Processes are certified only on the basis of need.

So in this sequence the house is made up of soil and stone; Houses made of iron and cement; Wood, iron, clay, stone,
Along with the need for cement houses, houses of various types and sizes are being seen today.
Is. Today it is based on the imagination born or generated on the basis of human need and its
In the course of implementation, the certified procedures have become clear, in this sequence the holder-carrier of the moving equipment, the equipment
Based on the requirement, the concepts and processes of many instruments were proved. in
Along with the requirements, the processes were certified in the form of production. proficient in this process
Man played the role of being and proving. These processes were given technical names
Went. Provision to properly train, educate and practice such procedures
Established by human tradition. This technology is called science and education. At this time


<newpage>

478 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

That is, at the end of the twentieth century, all the devices related to tele-listening, tele-communication, television and weight-carrying
Human tradition has achieved. Man is also liking all these achievements. make it into human
The desire and determination to keep it is also understandable. Man has created all these machines.

The noteworthy thing is that after the achievement of such instruments, it has been concluded that the instruments
Controlling a person is easy, controlling a human being is not easy. This was accepted when the machine
It is ready. The first thing to be kept in mind is that such traders accepted such decisions which
They kept considering themselves as the best administrator or as having developed. Most of such administrators
The people engaged in production were guided and controlled for the production. their
The main issue or the basis of decision making thus became that of achieving desired production and desired profit.
Due to commitment, there has been a deadlock on the issue of division between workers and administrators. it
The site is still confused. The root cause of this is fear and temptation.

Till today, efforts to maintain the production system on the basis of fear and temptation have continued.
Gradually: conflict erupts due to temptation, convenience, accumulation, conflict, fear of others
Approvals kept decreasing. On the contrary, the tendency and mentality to intimidate others increased. methods
was changed frequently. As a result, good administrators began to accept their inability to create fear.
In response to this, it was considered easier for industries and production plants to become automated. something in that too
Men were needed. This situation has been considered so favorable that many people
It is easier to make arrangements with a few people at a place.

Even with small and large numbers of people, it was seen that the administrators were at odds over the issue of inducements and distribution of wealth.
And distance remained between the workers. Where more people used to work, after automation
Even with a few people, the issue of division between administrators and workers remains an issue.
It remains the same. This is mostly being heard from people working in automated plants.
Most of the people are there as instrument controllers. Equally educated in situations without automated plants
A person finds solace in what he finds, rather than in whatever means he obtains.
It is seen happening. It has also begun in some plants that further changes in distribution are required.
Is. This is basically due to the temptation not having a satisfaction point. This problem basically arises between administrators and workers.
It is a troublesome issue. The original administrators continued to adopt a profit-oriented mentality for accumulation and enjoyment.


<newpage>

critical materialism 79

Are. Always a worker, after today there will be more rewards, less work to do and responsibilities
It is seen that no matter what happens, he keeps doing research on it. This situation is more or less all
It is like this in countries. This shows that the administrative and
There is no point for both the workers to be satisfied.

All industries are established only on the basis of need. Imbalance based on profit mania
Begins. Imbalance is the gap between human desire and achievement. Notable facts in this
That is, the compromise made on the basis of fear and temptation was seen as a consolation at that time.
Has gone. But ultimately fails. This is seen in both the system and the workers. One
There is solace for a moment and dissatisfaction for a long time. This form is today's illustration.

Production and Balance It makes sense to have the basic formula of Sahaj Vaibhav as an option:-
, Responsibility to identify, live and evaluate values ​​instead of fear and temptation
Understanding and processing turnover as an alternative to profit mania.

Participation in the system itself and the overall system.

Evaluation of labor values, evaluation of oneself, others.

Labor exchange.

7 छा ए ए

Every human being is naturally endowed with inexhaustible strength and inexhaustible power. Labor power is the basis of skill and efficiency.
The original capital is in the form. This is an alternative to capital investment, capitalism and capitalism.

8. Prosperity instead of accumulation.

9. Human and natural relations, participation of every human being in the production of every family.

0. Behavior and industry in every family, participation in family system.

At the core of all this, every person should have knowledge of life, knowledge of existence philosophy, knowledge of humane conduct.
There is an inevitability. Only then, in every human being, there is faith in oneself, respect for excellence, talent and personality.
It is easy to be balanced in mind, social in behavior and self-reliant in business. As long as the human being is in himself, from,
Till then he will not believe in anything, either by being an administrator or by being a worker or by anything else.
It is not possible to achieve satisfaction, balance and control by staying in any situation. will result in chaos
Will do it. Therefore, awakening to the truth that life exists equally in every human being is necessary.

First form of life activity:-


<newpage>

80 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

, Imagination and action are freedom.

Knowing, believing, recognizing are the actions of living.
Tasting and selection are actions.

Comparison and analysis is action.

Thinking and drawing is an action.

Bodh and Ritambhara (resolution) are actions.

7 अ की 70

Experience and authenticity are complete actions.

All these activities were found to be easily proven in an awakened life and awakening is present in every person.
It is also possible to happen.

It is on the basis of imagination and freedom of action that human beings act according to their hopes, thoughts and desires.
Items and equipment related to common aspiration and ambition have been prepared. on this basis
independent? A united society and a universal system could not be realized. Therefore human innate personalities
Understanding and human aspiration with the aim of realizing a seamless united society and universal system.
It is necessary to study the human being completely.

(4) Selection and tasting :-

The process of choosing and savoring can be seen in everyone – young, old, wise, ignorant, learned, foolish.
Could. When children are presented with a variety of toys and sweets, each child develops his own
Some things are seen being adopted in different ways. In this way all children are diverse
We are seen carrying out the selection process. It is used in fields, barns, factories, industries and
It can be tried in all places like production, market, trade, forest, bush medicine, herbs etc.
This selection process is seen to be done in the most interest based method. As a result, the act of tasting
It is found to occur in a manner dependent on all five senses. Selection by sensory organs and words, touch, form, taste,
The process of tasting life can be seen through the sense of smell. We use this in every situation
Can test. Can also use itself as an object of inspection test and
Others can also use it.


<newpage>

critical materialism 484

(2) Comparison and analysis :-

In every situation, a person confuses the balance that is loved by man, beneficial and profitable. Dear-
The complete comparison of unpleasantness is possible only with the five senses. with oneself, with others
The same is seen here also. The balance of benefits is found to be based on body health based approach.
Is. It is clear that the best interest for health should be decided on the basis of what is appropriate or inappropriate. Whereas
The working form of profit-benefit balance is to give less, take more and it is related to desire, thought and hope.
In this sequence, human tradition has adopted profit-mad commercialism till profit mania.

The three visions (tulag) mentioned above remain active in most people even without proper understanding.
Are. All three such visions are seen to be active to some extent in living beings also. in original form
There are active visions that work in an awakened human being, those visions are justice-injustice, righteousness-unrighteousness and truth.
false. In human tradition, awakening in a natural form and its continuation means awakening. to relationships
Recognizing, following values ​​and having evaluation process and mutual satisfaction is justice in its own form.
In this sequence, justice remains desirable for all and the condition and evidence of it being accessible to all through traditional law,
This is not seen in any tradition because decisions are taken in judicial codes and courts, not justice.
This is naturally visible in the humanistic thinking.

Harmony became necessary in perspectives like individual, family, society, nation and international. found in humans
Harmony in the viewpoints of love, interest, benefit, justice, righteousness and truth.
It became necessary. Family, society, state, system, authenticity, natural harmony in a definite direction.
It became necessary to scrutinize, reconsider and arrive at conclusions through a balanced and polarized method. This 
On this basis imagination, logic and science took place.

Production work is seen being carried out in every family or there is a need for it.
Proven in all conditions on earth.

The goal is awakening or awakening perfection in, for, and in human beings. therefore directed towards awakening
To be is sociality. This awakening is the innate goal of consciousness found in all human beings, consciousness is an innate expectation.
Rupi has been identified in the meaning of satisfaction and its continuity. Human consciousness to know, believe, recognize,
Being active is found in the form of subsistence. Satisfaction point of knowing, believing, feeling in existence


<newpage>

82 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

And as a proof of that, self-discipline naturally remains intact. life knowledge, humane conduct
Including family-based self-governance and participation in the system becomes accessible to all. This only
There is satisfaction of imagination.

In this way, the natural goal of human tradition is to achieve self-governance along with family-oriented and self-governance.
Is. In this sequence, human participation in the system itself and the overall system is accomplished in a humane manner.
It is easy to be. Such spontaneity was not available in any community tradition. However, every country, every
Having the best people in the community, history is also being seen as an easy assessment. today also
To see ideal persons or personalities being accepted by the general public in every community, every country, every tradition.
Is getting. Humane conduct is proved by simple study of life knowledge and existence philosophy.
Is. It is now possible to recognize individuals and families who behave humanely. idealist-
No community, no government, no social service organization is capable of recognizing such a materialistic person or family.
Couldn't try.

This is the basis of the survey for the easy possibility of a family based self-rule system. in human,
Innate recognition of humane conduct has been seen in this way - one who is self-possessed, self-possessed, full of mercy.
Performs work. Identification of relationships, realization and evaluation of values, mutual satisfaction
There is easy proof. It utilizes and protects the body, mind and wealth properly. this is full of humanity
It is a form of conduct.

) The form of Swadhan is:- Money received from reward, reward, prize. The reward is that thing - natural
As a result of planning labor on opulence, things including utility and beauty (art) values ​​are available.
It is a reward and a thing received in return for services rendered, as a result of some excellent expression.
Are the items received. Congratulation, affection, meeting, celebration or celebration as an expression of spontaneous faith.
Are the items received. Like meeting elders, meeting children, things offered on birthdays, joyous celebrations etc.
It is counted as a reward. The object offered along with the celebration of happiness is Paritosh. self-wealth in this way
The form of is clear.

॥) It is clear from Swanari/Swapurush that conjugal relationship obtained through marriage:- All this is in the form of arrangement.
In order for every person to be certified and to participate in the overall system, marriage takes place.
Is moderate. Puberty sexual relations are restrained and safe only in marital relationship. Whereas enjoyment, multi-indulgence,


<newpage>

critical materialism 483

Every human being indulged in excessive indulgence was found to be incontinent. Its ultimate result was cruelty
Or humility. Till now, according to history, polygamy is a monster of human for sexual pleasure or
It is necessary to behave like animals. This is seen in history or even in the present.

॥) Daya:- Life awakening in its own form is an expression of spontaneous authenticity. Mercy
The expression of innate humanity can be assessed and proved only in humans. ability, capability, eligibility
According to this, the evaluation process of object accessibility is done. Humanity is complete only in balance of eligibility and personality.
Humans are able to verify their behavior. Due to this truth, such evaluation and conduct order of every human being is
Getting certified in is a requirement. On this basis, in the task of easily achieving the things as per the eligibility.
He offers his body, mind and wealth. This is the meaning of mercy. humanity inherent in every human being
It always remains. Determination of the object of humanity in the sense of participation and authenticity in the system.
And it is polarized in the sense of expressing self-discipline. Whatever things are in between these poles are human
One should have all the things as per one's eligibility, such as solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence etc.
Are. The whole thing which is achieved in human system is solution, prosperity, fear and co-existence.
Is. During the journey of the body, these four things or the eligibility for attaining these four things in human beings.
Life remains simple. In this way, during the physical journey itself, every human child deserves mercy.
It always remains. In tradition, those objects are kindly handed down from generation to generation. in tradition
The things that are to be established will naturally be in accordance with the eligibility in the future generations just by being there.
The item is accessible.

In this way, the fact can be understood that it is only in tradition that the work-behavior can be evaluated with compassion.
And the purpose is accomplished. Valuation implies mutual recognition of each family as a human being.
And there is integrity in subsistence. Its simple meaning is - universalization of humanity and
To maintain participation in the system and tradition. Ability to treat everyone with kindness
Are prosperous with. As a result, there will be solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence in future children or future generations.
Getting certified is easy.

In the tradition, despite not being the source of all good, some human being, in some community tradition, is the source of all good.

Have been confirming the wishes of relatives. Validates the expression. as much as tradition remains alive
A person who is more awakened than that has performed the physical journey in those traditions and has done more than that in the tradition.


<newpage>

84 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Expressed awakening. This sequence continues even today. Awakening Spontaneous Expression More Than Current Traditions
And the presentation of communication itself is “solution materialism”. This shows that human tradition
Until a united society is established as a universal system, community tradition
There will always be more and more awakened humans. From this testimony it can be understood that life naturally happens every
A person keeps trying in various ways for awakening.

4) Protection and proper utilization of wealth in the form of body, mind and wealth: - Good utilization of wealth in the form of human body, mind and wealth.
It does. This action is found to occur only in humans. Everyone has understood the nature of the body -
Activities of the five senses and the five senses of action. Nature of mind - knowledge of life, philosophy of existence,
Humanity is the result of a well-behaved mentality. At least life is from a knowledge-rich mentality. Life
Only through richness of knowledge is it possible to participate in a unified society and universal system. richness of life knowledge
It was found to be indicative of innocence. On this basis, such a knowledge-rich mentality and healthy body
These facts are presented only by coincidence. Along with this, Swadhan (whatever is obtained through hard work)
Money remains, every human being wants to utilize it properly and have security. Confused humans also want security,
Whereas an innocent human being both wants and does it. Such good use, safety has been seen, tested
Is. It can be identified as follows:-

Awakened human beings share their body, mind, money and current responsibilities and duties with the next generation and the next generation.
By offering it in advance, dedicating it and making good use of it, one attains happiness. resulting in safety
Is certified.

Use:- In an autonomous human natural family, the meaning of body, mind and wealth can be used with value and evaluation.
Mutual satisfaction.
Good use:- Planning of body, mind and wealth while participating in family based self-rule system,
It is put to good use.
Purposefulness:- The means of body, mind and wealth employed in proving it through awakening method.

Those who use their body, mind and wealth for development and awakening, duty and
Obligations are committed in the sense of protection, awakening and development of the person for whom it is committed.
Completed. This is the complementation method.


<newpage>

critical materialism 485

In human tradition, it is only through complementary methods that human beings can attain natural prosperity, good use of means like body, mind, wealth and easy security.
Beauty, happiness and solution have to be seen and this is the originality found in human tradition.
In this sequence, human beings are immersed in innate security, good use – that which protects, that which is safe.
Celebration means equality of happiness, equality of resolution and sense of beauty comes easily. this human
And human tradition is the basic point of control. Its positive beauty is visible to every awakened human being or
Jagrat can be seen in the family. Who have become firm in humane conduct.

There is participation in human system and system only in order to properly utilize and protect means in the form of body, mind and wealth and
Creation of a united society, creation work and participation in it is the responsibility of the awakened tradition.
Are.

Humanity, proper use of body, mind and wealth through simple methods - population control in order to ensure security.
The road is paved and environmental protection is also available. As long as humans continue to suffer from insecurity,
Till then it will continue to create pollution. Will prepare environmental and natural problems. Now!
Till now, due to all the problems created in these perspectives, the illusion-free union of man towards man could not be accomplished.
Its testimony is visible in many forms. Every country, from bodyguards to border security,
Everything is visible behind what is called a sect. All this indicates that human
At the same time, man did not recognize, maintain and evaluate the security and good use of his body, mind and wealth.
It was far away from doing so. Its more traditional evidence is the context of treason, rebellion, exploitation and war.
Kneaded in is currently visible. All the best despite all these adversities,
Plans, scriptures, methods of thought, evidence, experience, philosophy, methods arise automatically and become human beings.
Has or is being presented before us. This “solutional materialism” is also presented.

The growing confusion in human tradition as to one's own and another's is troubling. to be free from
For this the human being has to be recognized. Existence has to be recognized. coexistence must be recognized
And life has to be recognized. This fact, truth, reality, there is no such thing in the flow of tradition of many communities.
The thing is not visible, so this evidence makes it possible for entire communities to accept their delusions.
Will go. As a result, striving for fearlessness will happen naturally. In this way all human beings wish good
Despite being deprived of auspiciousness, the reason for this becomes clear and the path to all auspiciousness becomes easy.
becomes widespread through the system. Complete solution of physics and chemistry in co-existence system.


<newpage>

86 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Has been proven to be in order. The entire human being is thirsty for solutions. To live in the human solution tradition
Is obliged. It is proved that this is human religion as the solution is happiness and beauty. of human
Apart from this, all living beings, all plants, all things have certainty in their existence according to their respective traditions.
The study working according to the formula has become accessible. This is, in essence, solution materialism.
Is success.

Looking at the purposes of the human natural body journey, the combined journey of life and body, it becomes clear that
Awakening means knowing, believing, recognizing, living, its satisfaction and continuity must be there. This only
To be certified as authenticity, self-discipline, holistic solution, prosperity, fearlessness and co-existence.
It is only there. This business, behavior, social system, thoughts and experiences are naturally desired and necessary.
It is a long awaited event or achievement. The remarkable thing is that now the entire good fortune, for human
It has become possible to be under the influence. In this sequence, every human being, every family, the body, mind,
There will be easy use and security of money. As a result, environmental natural problems,
Pollution problem, justice problem, security problem, production problem, exchange problem, education-culture problem.
And health-control problems will go away.

Human life is based on simple comparison of justice-injustice, religion-righteousness, truth-false, justice, religion, truth.
In the course of work, humane conduct, unbroken justice and easy glory will be meaningful in the human family. Sovereign
Participation in the system, religion, easy prosperity, all-round solution will be meaningful in easy way. awakening,
Authenticity, self-discipline, truth, natural splendor will always be accessible to, within, and for humans.

(3) Thinking and drawing :-

Life itself is the witness of justice and grandeur. Justice is realized only in the mind of life. this life
The sixth action taking place is contemplation. This is preceded by selection and tasting, analysis and comparison operations.
It has been made clear that every confused human being is endowed with close senses. contemplation in mind
And the illustration work is completed. In thinking itself, the purposes (in the form of justice, religion and truth) are recognized in the form of experience.
Goes (ie interviews). Man recognizes the purpose of justice through the method of thinking, life
Recognizes. This is possible only through the method of justice-religion-truth realization. As a result, the vision of a united society
And the human imagination of family is easily clear. As a result, it is necessary to prove in practice


<newpage>

critical materialism 87

goes . In this way, in thinking i.e. in interview, the purposes should be identified only through the combination of imagination.
Finds.

(4) Bodh and Ritambhara (resolution) :-

Life is spontaneous and two activities are recognized as perception and resolution. This splendor in the intellect
Is. Whatever realization occurs is of justice, religion and truth only. Justice Instinct Proof Family Human
Has been seen in the form of. Understanding Dharma means understanding the universal system.
To be determined to prove a holistic solution. Imagination - Justice in a natural form
Recognition of relationships, fulfillment of values, first relief in work, first happiness which has the possibility of continuation.
The rising continues. Complete imagination as an all-round solution, as daily happiness.
Is transformed or awakened. This is the satisfaction point of imagination. all-round solution
It is only in practice that evidence of participation in the system can be found in advance. This is the testimony of continuity of happiness.
This is also a testimony that there is continuity in order, not chaos. future transformation of chaos
Because development is certain in existence, hence order is certain. Therefore the change of chaos is future
Yes, this is destiny. Experience is always pleasant. Ultimate happiness remains in intuitive understanding. his
The meaningful process is the solution which remains present in the form of spontaneous resolution of the intellect.

(5) Experience and authenticity :-

The fifth two activities are accomplished in life in the form of experience and authenticity. human consciousness innate
Experience proves satisfaction as its continuation. Human consciousness to know, believe, recognize,
It is an activity of subsistence. Its satisfaction point is the solution. Its realization itself is religion. which is supreme satisfaction
And the point of satisfaction of knowing, believing, recognizing and living in such a way as bliss is the object of experience.
Once the experience is attained in a particular moment, life becomes manifest through an experience based method.
is found. Before this, through empirical method i.e. to know the unknown and attain the unrealized.
Awakening takes place in sequence. In this process of awakening, imagination, action and freedom continued to be used.
Is.

Awakening is in the order of knowing, believing, recognizing and living. This is evident in practice. the very first
Awareness in selection and taste, second thought (analysis) and awareness in comparison. Third reflection and illustration


<newpage>

88 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Awakening in. Fourth, awakening in awareness and resolution. In the fifth stage, the feeling of ultimate satisfaction and its
Authenticity. Being certified in human behavior is the awakening of life, spontaneous expression, communication and
Is published. In this second language, awakening is the power of intuitive experience, style of thinking and the art of living. This only
It is the foundation of human tradition. The splendor of spontaneous awakening is the splendor of humanistic tradition. hence human
It is paramount and essential to awaken the tradition and remain awake. This awakening brings enlightenment, sovereignty and sovereignty.
To remain glorious in form is the eternal truth.

Recirculating economy, behavioral social consciousness and human consciousness psychology are the combined form of
Including humane culture, civilization, system, law, process, business, behavior, thought and experience
The study proves the art of living as a unified society, a universal system.
Its basic knowledge is the knowledge of life. The basic philosophy is the philosophy of coexistence. Brief introduction to basic knowledge
were presented. Before this, detailed analysis was done in the chapter “Development in Nuclear” and elsewhere,
As per the need, as much as the need arises, life will continue to be studied.

In relation to existential philosophy, existence, including humans, are nature infused into being. inanimate nature
Always being in the form of spontaneous coexistence of state and motion, presented in the first chapter “Existence” in the study sequence.
Have done. Even after this, existence is presented as per the need in the form of spontaneous study and philosophy.
Will remain. Knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, humanitarian conduct in the form of spontaneous expression and its glory.
has been made clear. Hence, existence philosophy, life knowledge and humane conduct in natural form.
It has clarified the possibility of human tradition becoming glorious in the form of a unified society and a universal system.
Has gone.

Whatever is being made clear to humans right now, unbroken society, universal system, knowledge of life,
Existential philosophy is being presented on the basis of humane conduct. More in this contemplation
We came to recognize the fundamental fact that man is the observer of existence. Existence is rooted in existence and
Consciousness is nature. Existence itself is ever present in the form of coexistence. Existence is the ultimate truth. Life
Awakening perfection, its continuity is the natural destination and movement of human beings. To fully understand these facts
Only later has “solutional materialism” been dedicated to, for, and in the human being.

Human beings naturally want to be awakened. To prevent pollution in production activities through awareness
The measures are also understood and the production work becomes moderate. Being moderate means the goods produced


<newpage>

critical materialism 89

The strength of quality in Hindi is in the sense of excellence, quantity, usefulness, usefulness and usefulness. his
In the form of meaningfulness, the system and participation in the system become the pole of control, hence control
possible. Such a situation will be based on the principle of a united society and its integrity will be a natural part of human tradition.
Success will be meaningful on the basis of awakening.

Due to coexistence being naturally effective, human beings are consciously cyclical.
Develops the art of living lawfully. The reason for this is that human tradition naturally
Believes in existence, it implies awakening. Awakening into existence, awakening into coexistence, evolution
Awakening in the system, awakening in life, awakening in physical-chemical composition, awakening in complementarity,
Awakening in sublimation, awakening in system including “tva”, human integral society including humanity, universal
Awareness in participating in the system; Authenticity, Self-Discipline, Holistic Solution, Social Justice
Awakening in prosperity and fearlessness, awakening in action, perfection in conduct and their continuity.
It is on the basis of being accessible to all that the proof of human tradition remaining intact remains intact. All these issues, these
All points of existence philosophy, life knowledge and humanitarian conduct are completely included in the same continuity.
Are. As a result, humane culture, civilization, law and system become accessible to everyone. this human race
Is the glory of. Through this method, coexistence without war, exploitation, rebellion and easy social creation and universal
The system will be easily accessible to the human race.

The sequence of mutual complementation is recurrence; human beings consciously keep completeness in mind, keeping in mind the innate purposes.
Recognizing the events that have taken place automatically becomes recurring. Like soil protection, erosion resistance
To get rid of it, to keep it rich with fertilizer. As natural as it is, whatever is safe on earth
If all the greenery that is produced is absorbed on that earth, the fertility of that earth will remain balanced.
It is seen becoming prosperous to some extent or the other. As far as grains are available, that too
Ultimately it becomes fertilizer and gets absorbed into the earth. This itself is evidence of periodicity. this relation labor
It is accomplished through planning method. Man can stop the degradation of the earth only through labor planning.
As a result, the possibility of sowing crops in the earth and the possibility of getting crops and the fertility of the earth.
The probability of maintaining equilibrium is a function of this periodicity. natural by preserving the earth
In this form, the water that rains on the earth, more and more opportunities and conditions are created for it to seep into the earth.
happened. Due to this, the water contained in the earth was always found to be useful for the earth.


<newpage>

90 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

In order to conserve water, collect as much water as possible, useful for agriculture and greenery.
is found to be. At the same time, when the atmosphere loses water from the earth due to the influence of natural heat,
The greater the evaporation that occurs, the greater is the possibility of rainfall. In this
It is also worth noting that as war mania and profit mania will decrease, in the same sequence
The oceans, the earth's atmosphere, the disturbances within the earth that man has created out of madness are gradually disappearing.
There is a possibility of it being reduced. In the instinctive human tradition, the need for war gradually decreases.
After some time it becomes zero. That is, it becomes controlled, that is, awakening, easy control
Is effective. Second, wastage begins to end. Harmony, significance, security incarnate
Looks like. As a result the needs become moderate. The number of production and that too mechanically related
The (unnecessary) production of goods becomes minimal. As a result, related items
The need will reduce. In the method of good use, even today the use of instruments is minimized.
There is no fear and temptation for convenience, whimsical, colorful programs. delusional profit-obsessed,
The orgasmic and sensual pleasures are assessed using most of the mechanical devices used today.
Is. It is natural for the wastefulness in all these to be reduced. instrument telecommunication,
Doordarshan will definitely be there in the sense of social movement, which is based on family based self-rule system (which is the world in one family).
Use of those instruments to maintain the coordination of social structure and its system in the form of family,
There will be good use and usefulness. Solution, prosperity, for every family, human being, in every country, in every time.
The art of living fearlessly and in a simple way of co-existence will remain present.

As stated above, participation in the system and the system are the basis of celebration in the human being.
But wastage ends automatically. Therefore the need for machines will be reduced. As a result:
Noise, fear and apprehension will come to an end; Enthusiasm, celebration, daily enthusiasm will continue to emerge.
'As a result, happiness, satisfaction and sense of beauty will remain continuously accessible. That's why playfulness and curiosity end automatically.
Will keep happening. Every trip; At the poles of excellence in testing, inspection, survey, study, teaching and arrangement
Tradition will be easy in the sense of imparting education and receiving education.

Keeping in mind the present circumstances of human beings from the study till now, we have to understand that
Analysis It is necessary to understand that “Whatever I do, I do it by understanding or understand by doing.”
Am I or does someone get it done?” It is important to consider these things.


<newpage>

critical materialism 94

By considering existence as co-existence, it becomes clear that human beings are the only ones who exist consciously.
I am a seer. Every human being has the possibility of being a seer, the evidence of this can be proven in practice.
Imagination and action are freedom. It has been analyzed that human beings are multi-dimensional.
is an expression. It is inevitable and necessary for human beings to be expressed in all dimensions, angles, directions and perspectives.
It is destiny. In this, the entire source of success lies only in human tradition, unbroken society, universal system.
There is awakening and this is the eternal truth of human life. On the basis of this i.e. on the basis of awakening spontaneity
But the expression, communication, publication, behavior done in all dimensions, angles, directions, perspectives.
It has become clear that this is proven as the only solution. These facts determine that the situation
And the work done through the method of complementation in motion is found to be successful only with a solution.
Is. Success means the outcome of solution, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence. of success
The second form is by proving participation in a united society and universal system. it wise
The function of the work-behavior done is found to be present and certified in these forms. from is
It turns out that it is possible to be successful if the work is done with understanding, it is necessary to be successful,
Being successful is meaningful and essential.

Only on the basis of behavioral evidence, universal system and united society can be proved. so
Needs are limited or moderate. At present faith is the proof of the system. so also
It is easy for a human being to be patient. Man's need to be controlled is to control or limit his needs.
Has to happen. This is the basic object of wisdom. On the basis of such understanding only limited needs
The production work should be balanced on the basis, the exchange work should be done in a manner free from profit and loss, to be seen.
Get. As a result, it is easy to control the mania for profit. Depending on whether one of the manias is moderated, the other
Both the frenzies are controlled. Profit mania, sexual mania and pleasure mania are the causes of chaos in human tradition.
Is causative and indicative. With access to justice, carnal and sensual tendencies are controlled. overall
The mania for profit can be controlled easily on the basis of participation in the system, all-round solution and authenticity.
It is possible to happen. In this way, all three frenzies will be calmed down and celebrations of universal system and unbroken society tradition will take place.
Or get merged in the daily celebration.

The same glory has been seen in the awakening process that as the human being becomes awakened, so does the non-awakening or confusion.
Reproductive activities come to an end. It can also be understood that any work behavior is correct.


<newpage>

92 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Even when done properly, mistakes are possible or mistakes do happen. After understanding the right thing to do
The possibility of mistake is eliminated. The proof of fearlessness is humanity including system, society and
There is sociality. In society and sociality, trust comes easily from human to human. Because
Every person's participation in the law and order is evidence of faith. certified in such a system
Being, awakening and awakening are evident in the episode. Unbroken society, universal system is awakening
Is indicative of.

From the above facts it became clear that on the basis of art of living, thinking style and strength of experience, human beings can
Tradition is able to present evidence of its awakening. Confident about the future and proven in the present
In this, a united society becomes glorious as a universal system. This is the goal of man. this goal
Only in the context of need, industry for production and maintaining relations and balance should it be accessible.
goes. The main thing is that-

4. Human beings are restrained in the system, which is a proof of awakening.

2. Family: Human needs are moderate, this is the proof of awakening.

3. Every family produces more than required, this is a proof of awakening.

4. Every family or every family experiences prosperity, this is the proof of awakening.

Is.

This fact can be understood as such that when the family is present in its definition of autonomy,
Then it starts recognizing mutual relationships, observing values ​​and evaluating them.
gets to. Also, one can be seen participating in the production work adopted in the family.
Is. In this sequence, excess production is proved. At its core this fact is also effective
It remains that due to the existence of every human being in the combined form of life and body, the vital forces
Being renewable, the requirements are limited and hence production exceeds the requirement.
'As a result, it is possible to experience prosperity.

5. Family is a proof of human solution-prosperity which utilizes and protects wealth (body, mind, wealth).
Is. This is proof of awakening. As a result, industries were developed according to human innate needs.
It becomes easy to do.


<newpage>

critical materialism 93

From the moment human tradition becomes authentic as an awakened tradition, the natural and environmental
It is natural to be alert for balance. In order to utilize fuel (energy) sources such as and
Environmental problems may be affected or solved depending on the number of ways they are used.
is found to be. The basis of balance on this issue is minerals, coal and oil as energy sources.
was recognized. It proved to be the biggest factor for pollution. This leads to the acquisition of knowledge or
Humans understand that other types of energy sources must be used to perform necessary tasks. such energy
Sources are visible in large numbers in the form of solar energy and flow power. These two sources are most
The method of using it should be discovered immediately. The flow power from these two sources,
Conversion into electromagnetic power should start soon. Result: Mineral oil and coal
There is no need to use. Along with this, other energy sources like cow dung gas, garbage gas etc.
What is recognized as form must be enhanced. providing both fuel and lighting
Could. Meanwhile, the manufacturing of equipment to utilize solar energy and its accessible achievements.
It is necessary to awaken the entire public mind regarding this.

In order to live a natural human awakening tradition, keeping the body healthy is also a task. in this order
Which are used to cure whatever problems are seen through infectious, invasive methods.
Many diseases can be cured with household items like herbs etc. which are easily found everywhere.
It is easy to establish rights in every family. Because in the family based self-rule system
Health-control programs are a responsibility of every family. In this sequence, the sacred diet is a major
There will be a program. Keeping this in mind, the wisdom required for agricultural work should also be accepted.
becomes necessary. In this sequence, maintaining the fertilizer balance of the earth is a necessity. In this
It is also the responsibility of humans. Earth, grain production, balance of fertility in natural form
There are recurring tasks from each other. Equilibrium in this periodicity has already been mentioned.
The main thing in this is that all the greenery grown in the earth, all the grass after extracting the grains,
The method of consuming animal dung and turning it into manure and then applying it to the fields should be adopted.
Otherwise, in case of excess of grass and chaff, it should be composted by rotting it thoroughly. it in the fields
Should be inserted. This method is in practice among most of the artisans. to increase its number
Needed. As the field increases, the amount of fertilizer also needs to increase.


<newpage>

94 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Pesticide or pest control operations should also be retained in the hands of farmers so that
There should be no situation of subjugation.

The sequence of absorption of acids and alkalis in the earth by the proportional method is made by the digestion method.
Digestion method in the earth means as far as the fertilizer transport process takes place (up to that depth).
Air circulation is found in the earth. This is the sequence of digestion method. By this method from air to earth
The essential thing, whether it is a chemical or an object, is in the order of inclusion. This action is proportional acid,
It is caused by the combination of chemicals like alkali etc. As acids, alkalis etc. combine with chemicals i.e. minerals
Due to the combination of the earth, i.e., agriculture and forests, proportionate acid and alkali accumulation is found in the earth.
In excess of this ratio, the alkali gets converted into infertile (barren) land in which there is no possibility of crop.
Almost ends.

As of now, looking at chemical fertilizers and their arbitrary uses shows that in a generation or two
After this no one will be able to take anything from the earth. survey this thing anywhere as its basis
We can find out what is the acidity and alkalinity in the land wherever chemical fertilizers are being used.
The percentage increased. Its ratio can be tested in all such fields since chemical fertilizers
Before that, the soil of the fields whose ridges have been built is being tested.
Can use. There is still soil there that was before the use of chemical fertilizers. based on that acid and
The proportion to which alkali has increased in the fields can be ascertained. This will also show that
By adding chemical fertilizer in what proportion, how much acid and alkali will increase in how many days, so that it
It will become barren. In today's situation, testing all these things has become accessible to everyone.
Is. Most of today's perception is about the long-term adverse effects of chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
Depending on the assumption of above or adverse effects, one gets to hear.

On the basis of all these experiences or on the basis of coexistence and spontaneous recurrence, we can know
It follows that the qualities and religion of the soil are recognized only on the basis of its fertility. in fertility
The combined action of all these substances (chemicals) can be seen that all the plants
Necessary chemicals are included in proportion method. after receiving which the seed transforms into many seeds
Are recognized as liquids. Thus, the basis of fertility is fertilizer, soil and vegetation.
Due to the combination of factors, the fertility of the earth increases automatically due to the rotation of soil and greenery.


<newpage>

critical materialism 95

Fertilization is found to be complete in order to complement the vital state and material state. This is the main principle that
Being rich in the fertility of the earth and being full of greenery. No matter how hard this earth is
Due to the complementation of animals and birds, even in the high mountains, big trees can grow and transform.
It can be seen happening. This happened even before humans or before humans descended on earth.
The situation remained the same. As soon as humans got their hands on the forests, many parts of them were turned into plains.
Deforested many areas. The forest was cut down. In such a place, humans have done maximum farming and gardening.
Did the work of. Flowers and medicines were a beautiful function in this. In this sequence the fertility of the earth is physical
In form which resembled the leaves of forest bushes and standing grasses. humans grow crops
Started. Which was generally done on the basis of grains. grain mixed with chaff
It was natural. On the basis of the surplus generated while redistributing it in the field, the earth will be
The fertility of the country kept decreasing. Reduction in fertility was also observed with the second method. Earth for hundreds of years
Wherever the erosion system was affected, fertility began to decline. Thus the number of places
But erosion took place and the land started becoming barren here and there. The root cause of this was humans. ultimately human
By doing my activities and understanding the natural consequences of nature, I reached here today. Today
The situation is such that whatever may be the mentality of humans, whatever may be the mischief they have done with the forest minerals.
Forest minerals have already been damaged. It is understood that all this damage was caused by humans. Now the damages
Understanding how to achieve this goal and how to adopt non-harm practices first
Necessity, inevitability and inevitability are looming.

Knowledge of life, philosophy of existence, knowledge of humane conduct, integral society, universal system and
Whatever damage has been caused to the earth, naturally, through the spontaneous movement of co-existence, it will be restored to itself.
A system of being filled has been kept in coexistence. Minerals, iron, coal and oil are the biggest
Has been the basis of atrocities. This can be considered serious damage. To keep this earth balanced
Whatever minerals and vegetation have been prepared, the quality of balance has been created in them. this is the proof
That this earth is a system in itself including all four states and as a participation in the overall system
Can be seen working. It follows that the Earth is in a solar array, the solar array
In many solar arrays, many solar arrays can be seen working as partners in the Milky Way.
Are getting. Cosmic Ray Radiation and Heat Change Activities for Development and Complementation
Is helpful. The earth itself is capable of making the adverse radiation effects favorable for this earth.


<newpage>

96 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Have created your own sphere of influence. Keeping these facts in mind, humans should be aware of the mistakes they have made.
Being willing to improve is the first step.

A set of real ideas necessary to correct the mistakes made by human tradition in the minds of the world public.
The need remained. These include intermediary philosophy, coexistenceism, circular economy, behaviorism,
Mentality prepared for human improvement on the basis of sociology and human consciousness psychology.
Can do. It has been dedicated to humans. This philosophy in itself contains complete dimensions, angles,
Naturalness in direction, perspective, environment, relationship, contact, position and movement, created by human illusion.
There is a solution to all the problems. Therefore this “solution materialism” is based on chemical-physical balance,
Provides easy solutions to facts related to complementarity. In this sequence, human interaction with this earth
Atrocities happened with forests and minerals. Among them, the fatal loss is due to minerals, coal and mineral oil,
It has been made clear.

Use of solar energy and flow powers to compensate for the damage caused by humans on Earth.
Emphasis was laid on awakening in the method. Sun energy is stored in the ray method and the heat is stored in the ray method.
The technology to use it has still developed to some extent. to develop further
And to make it universally accessible to the masses – this is a necessary task. to generate electricity from flow power
It is necessary to join the program considering it as paramount. Men have already become proficient in this work. In this
Today's humans are capable of bringing the necessary changes, this is the important point. As far as oil and grease
As far as running machinery is concerned, for which mineral oil remains indispensable, the earth's
Identification of oily trees in the surface, Identification of trees producing the most oil, Trees producing the most oil
It is necessary to plant trees that can help. Every artist needs oil as per his requirement.
It is necessary to establish a production schedule.

Along with this, it is also necessary that as far as building construction work is concerned, wood is required in it.
should be minimized until the forests become prosperous. Most importantly, houses should only
The technology and practice of making bricks and tiles based on the combination of clay and heat,
To popularize. On the basis of this, the expectations from forests as helpful resources in building houses.
Keep thinking, keep doing, its solution is clear as said above.


<newpage>

critical materialism 97

On the basis of this, another important possibility is in front of humans that the destruction of oily trees in the forests.
Trees should be planted. By extracting the data using this method, it can be found that as much as
Oil has been extracted, and in proportion to that, oil is being produced in the earth's surface -
It makes sense. Along with this, preparing machines that run on such vegetable oils is also a
There is a program. This can happen. Through this program, oil and coal will be extracted from inside the earth.
The requirement may be zero. The process of digesting the smoke produced by burning vegetable oil
remains in the plant kingdom, while most of the mineral oil and coal smoke is digested
The plant world remains helpless. As a result, pollution increased and environmental imbalance occurred. big and small instruments
In order to run it, all these resources like solar energy, electrification of flow power, vegetable oils etc.
All equipment planning and construction, recognizing the process of running the equipment as the primary energy source.
Human beings need to be proficient in the action plans to make it work. it is family based
It is possible to accomplish the Swarajya system through work-behavior method. The work of family-oriented Swarajya Yojana is possible.
The plan has already been made clear.

In this way, all the mistakes made by the human race out of confusion should be rectified and sorted out.
Could.

The study of natural existence and human natural system is basically the study of the traditional system of natural man.
It is an easy study, which itself is a proof of awakening. Complete awakening, all-round solution, authenticity and
Become glorious in the form of public justice. As a result, prosperity and fearlessness become accessible to humans, from
Is. A united society in the form of a family-oriented self-governance system of human tradition with all functions,
It is possible to become glorious as a universal system. Whose need is found in every human being or
Acceptance is found in all human beings. Therefore, the family based self-rule program needs to be implemented on the basis of evidence.
Should be adopted on this basis.

Access to justice and profit-loss free exchange is possible only through family based self-governance system.
It happens. If this is possible then it is to be rich instead of hoarded. every family human need
In order to produce more, one experiences prosperity. Due to availability of justice, human beings are now
He just believes. As a result, solutions are visible everywhere. Family with prosperity due to this truth
Gets certified as a human system.


<newpage>

98 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Body nutrition, protection in every family on the basis of excess production in every family.
And in the sense of social dynamics, it becomes possible for certain production tasks to be systematically determined. as a result
It is easy to experience the ease of production. Thus, access to justice, access to production, access to exchange
Accessibility, easy recurring splendor, itself a daily celebration, proves the system of self-rule.
Is. Human education, culture and health, restraint, simple programs, human clan are integral parts of such a festival.
It will continue to happen.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

critical materialism 99

) fear, temptation or value and evaluation

The prevalence of fear and temptation i.e. acceptance in the public mind in the sense of auspiciousness since the beginning of the ideal era.
It is found to be the same. From the scriptures and fairy tales it is known that there are different types of religions in different communities.
From this sermon was given on virtuous deeds and behaviour. Similarly, in the opposite form of virtuous behavior
The actions and behavior committed were considered a sin. fear of sin and hell and virtue and heaven
All narrative fairy tales have been told with variations in each tradition. This only
The reason was that the public mind had settled its desire for heaven and virtue and as a result accepted fear.
took. There was fear before the ideal era. On the basis of race and color, natural fear and
Fear remained the main reason for human interaction. In this ideal age, the matter of temptation
This became the basis for acceptance and assurance of security continued to be received from the throne. from the throne of religion to heaven
There were temptations and assurances of salvation. Thus based on fear, temptation, assurance of safety
Ways of living kept evolving. Even today, with fear and temptation, the state governance and industrial system
Want to fulfill. It has been effective in various ways in all countries.

When governance in the republic came into the hands of political parties on the basis of mandate, there was a need to get the mandate.
The expenditure of money was accepted as legal with public opinion. This is mainly the essence of the republican system.
The seed of defeat was embedded in the very roots. Satisfaction by distribution of rights to receive money after distribution-
Dissatisfaction flowed. Thus the republic system is today in the cycle of vote-note, division, satisfaction-dissatisfaction.
Stuck. Along with this, the public mind also started considering the government and administration as strangers. today's
Instead of accepting the situation, he kept rejecting the government. Thinking about it in a different way shows that
That it is not possible to rule through a republican method because the public representatives belong to some common family or the other.
Ascends to the throne with a mandate from.

Since ancient times, natural fear, animal fear has existed in the form of fear of inhumanity inherent in humans.
Man remained bound on the basis of race, color, caste, sect, opinion, position, creed and collection of things, his
The mass did not leave. They always create fear. The temptation of heaven is collection, convenience and luxury.
As transformed into the human psyche. From today's human psyche, trust with the mysterious heaven is diminished.
And now it is more reliable than the promise of heaven after death.


<newpage>

200 Mediator Philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

Supposedly, collection and enjoyment. A period of struggle is going on to grab the power and property.
Is. This is mainly seen in officials, politicians, some religious leaders, businessmen and industrialists.
Is getting. For the general public, all these people are the ideals of convenience collection. on this basis
An increasing number of human minds are busy in collecting convenience and enjoyment.

The noteworthy thing is that governance, system, society and current affairs are based on interest-oriented mentality.
It is not possible to have faith in. The idea of ​​system becomes universally accessible through existential human-centric thinking.
Is. This thinking is an inseparable human intuitive study of existence. Study of existence as a whole, human completeness
The basic object to be studied is the human being. Man is perfect in terms of his form, qualities, nature and religion.
It happens. Its study has become possible. Man is essentially a combined form of body and life, it
It is certified, it is current. It was studied systematically. In relation to physical composition, chemical-
The proper form of the physical structure of the body has been clarified and the form of life is “atomic in existence”.
It has been explained in the chapter “Development in India”. The evolution in the atom is the fully formed conscious nature.
Life is prestigious in rank - it is found so. Such a life is the awakening order in the human tradition, human
It is certified by the body. This destiny is an easy task. In order for such work to be successful, humanity and
Humanity is a clear dimension – this has been made clear. In this way nature is imbued with existence and existence.
Yes, it has become clear. Existence is spontaneous, all four states co-exist, ever present - this
It has been made clear.

In this way, coexistence paves the way for recognizing the human system in an easy way. its formula
This is it. Each is a system with its own “being” and is a participant in the overall system. therefore humans too
There is a system including humanity and its participation in the overall system is easily possible. That's why the system,
Humanity is a natural movement, not a rule. Value and evaluation become meaningful in reciprocity only through arrangement.

Is.

System existence is belief in the spontaneous present. Existence is ever present. to have faith in the present, its
The need for integrity is the proof of awakening in humans. Participation in arrangement and arrangement

This is speed.

Every human being wants to be confident in the present and confident about the future. If there is any obstacle in this
If it has been created then it is because of humans only. If there is mystery then that too is human natural nature.


<newpage>

critical materialism 204

Firstly, to maintain trust with humans; To be able to trust and rely on its continuation, this is
Are the main places. To think about it, to analyze it, to prove it in a planned manner, human
This is presented at the core of the study. The basic object of study is human beings. human being who studies
And while planning, it becomes a necessity to evaluate humanity and nature.

Whenever man is satisfied with the solution within himself, then the solution is found in nature, such as the human earth,
The solution comes with water, air, forest, animals, birds. How easily the solution worked with them,
This is confirmation of self-resolution.

When we look from a co-existential perspective, we can assess how satisfied we are.
This thing deserves to be evaluated in itself. The solution is essentially about completeness and continuity of completeness.
Validation is found in humans only in the form of a concept derived from meaning. existence of perfection
In this there is perfection of formation, perfection of action, perfection of conduct, the seer and knower of which is the awakened human being. meaning of seer
Existence is simply knowing, believing, recognizing and living in the daily present. Its unstoppable movement, inexhaustible
The source is coexistence. Only humans can be certified. For easy expression of its truth in human beings
The promise of achieving the unachieved, making the unknown known and getting certified is seen. desire
The significance of this lies in the spontaneous activity of imagination, thought and desire in favor of emergence. Abhishsha Sarvaman
I am present. In Abhishma, the natural transformation of the concept towards the fulfillment of desire is what makes a human being.
It is an activity of spontaneous awakening tradition. Only through awakening can man's faith in the present and his
There is assurance of integrity.

Human co-existence in the form of indivisible present in existence is the only natural way to know life, knowledge of philosophy of existence,
Humane conduct is accomplished through knowledge, its provision is always appropriate. On this basis, imagination
In the form of thoughts, character, community tradition, human change came only after accepting the natural possibility. whose
On this basis, today we humans have been waiting for spontaneous awakening. As a result, Jagriti Akhand
It is certain to be fruitful in the sense of society and universal system. Humanity is a constant source of spontaneous awakening.
There is coexistence, the daily process of awakening is coexistence. The awakened man is the constant bearer of awakening.
Are only. In this way the condition, speed and possibility of awakening are clear.

It is natural for a human being to be endowed with the art of living, thinking style and experience along with his value and evaluation.
Are. Nothing else is suitable for awakening or for proving total awakening.


<newpage>

202 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Are. Therefore, in order to establish harmony between human natural expectation and working system,
Complete concepts of perfection are included, it is a simple process.

The interrelationship and continuity of the four stages of existence must be known, believed, recognized by human beings,
To subsist is an innate concept of perfection and the behavior that proves it. This is the main point. ethics
Human participation is automatically evident from the balance. Human awakening with forest, minerals, water
Is able to follow natural rules in advance.

Otherwise, due to confusion, from need to convenience, from convenience to enjoyment, from indulgence to overindulgent temptations.
He commits many crimes on the basis of greed for collection and convenience. This is what has been done so far
It happened in the right way. Till now fear and temptation remain the same in humans. This sequence of fear and temptation
It has been happening that convenience comes from necessity, enjoyment comes from convenience, indulgence comes from indulgence. ways of living in this order
was adopted. Its source was considered to be the collection. This earth remained the only source for collection
I. As a result, whatever arbitrary actions could take place, imbalance of nature in the form of pollution and
It appeared in the form of a huge population. This presented itself before humans as a problem.

The noteworthy thing is that it was humans who increased the population. Came to inspire me to increase and
Pollution is created by humans through technology with the help of science and technology. Whereas
As far as population growth is concerned, everyone took part in this matter. Some community has less, some
The community did more - this can be assessed. Every community, every human being can understand this
Is. As far as pollution is concerned, it mainly starts from industries. industrial goods
The need to exist is found in the human psyche. The evidence of this is that whatever industries
Products were presented, they were welcomed and adopted by humans. form of adoption, out of necessity
Convenience was seen, from convenience to enjoyment, from indulgence to over-indulgence. The evidence thus produced, approved
Presented his participation in human pollution. These facts are reiterated here that
This study has been done in humans-

, Man cannot correct the mistake he has made without suffering in the understanding of his mistake.

Does.
2. Man accepted correction only when he understood the pain of his mistake.


<newpage>

critical materialism 203

That is, his need (for improvement) was understood, as a result it was necessary for him.
Adopts activities. On this basis, all the communities found in this earth have faced pollution and
Participation in population growth has been sustained. All communities will feel the pain of this mistake.
is required. On the basis of this, it becomes understandable to avoid it or to improve it.

All four states of existence are proven to exist on this earth. This earth is part of a solar array.
It has become clear that it is working. Humans have the imagination of having such an infinite solar array,
All the human beings on this earth should prove the natural signs of awakening on this earth, its supreme
Are required. Because all the problems are created by humans, by humans, for humans. so all
Presenting solutions in dimensions, angles, directions and perspectives is also an absolute necessity. its basis
This means that problems are not acceptable to humans. But the solutions are easily acceptable. of solution
The whole purpose is the mutual coexistence in the inter-relationships and existence of the human unit, in the spontaneous present,
Is recognized. That is, the sequence of perfection, completeness and its continuity, knowing, believing,
It is communicated through evidence of recognition and subsistence. This is the meaning of human language. convey this meaning
To do this, one has to adopt reason, virtue, mathematical method, rationality and logical system based on science.
Is. Through this method, the concept of perfection and its integrity naturally flows into human tradition.
Are. Human tradition means humane education and culture, family-based self-rule, humane conduct.
Everyone is waiting for this constitution in the form of code. There is only one reason for this, its daily good, in human
remains accepted. Due to this truth, the evidence is daily accepted in human beings in the form of desire, good thoughts.
It is natural to present it in the form of auspicious imagination. In production, in practice, hope, idea,
The spontaneous communication between desire, Ritambhara and Pramana is the basis of human conduct, human behavior and
It is proved as a human system. For this, human education and culture received in the form of tradition
It is easy to be, too. This is the meaning and expectation of the Pramana tradition.

Human spontaneous awakening is the basis of a humane system. Are the source of its continuity. perfect human being
The awakening sequence of is the natural sequence of knowing, believing, recognizing and living. complete object of knowledge and belief
Existence is all. Human beings are indivisible in existence. “Evolution into existence into atoms” existing naturally
Human is defined as a combined body in the form of chemical-physical composition in life, dignity and existence.
Is and are explained. Everything in existence is defined in its own form and behaves


<newpage>

204 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Interpreted as splendor. Like power in its universality i.e. in its uniform form present everywhere.
is defined and interpreted as transparent, permeability. infinite units of nature saturated in power
is defined as. Interpreted as verbs including labour, motion, result.

The inert and conscious state of existence in nature, the state of matter, the chemical state with its easy definition and explanation.
Defined and explained in terms of physical structure. nature rich in power natural life inexhaustible power
And is defined as Akshaya force and explained for awakening and its continuity.

The entire existence is ever present with definite definition and definite explanation. determination, understanding of the system
Coming in itself expresses prestige in the form of definition, position and status. Explanation, glory and purposes
Expresses. To be expressed is in the present. existence, innate stability, development and awakening, innate certainty
The definition is definitely worth studying.

Human is the combined form of inanimate and animate nature. The tradition of human anatomy is accomplished by chance.
It is known to happen. The human body is driven by the necessity of life to prove its awakening.
Does. Whereas life itself governs the bodies of living beings. The purpose of this is hereditary
The activities currently have to be certified. This is the difference in the purpose of humans and living beings. human
In Parampara, life is proved, whereas in Jivavastha, the body is proved to be a spontaneous activity. Life
The aim is awakening. Awakening Spontaneous Explanation: Awakening in existence is intuitive knowledge, philosophy and conduct.
Whenever humans present the evidence of awakening, they will explain themselves in these three points only.
Will do.

The meaning of philosophy includes both the seer and the seen. Seer means one who understands and is understood.
Man is the only seer. The human being who is a seer has six (6) visions. Of which the beloved governed by justice, religion, truth,
The visions of benefit and profit (prosperity) are proved in the awakened human being. The confused human has only dear, interest and
Profit visions are published. Knowledge in the sense of awakening of life is this – knowledge of life, knowledge of existence philosophy.
And knowledge of humane conduct. As a result of life-knowledge and existential philosophy, awakening, universal
The system can be certified in the form of conduct, work and behavior through law. At the same time, with awareness that
Whatever production work we do and strive to do, it all comes with a coexistence mindset.
One can see prosperity only by including. As a result, human coexistence leads to spontaneous production activities.
Will continue to adopt it in a planned manner. Therefore maintenance of natural relationships, maintenance and evaluation of values ​​is easy.


<newpage>

critical materialism 205

Will be possible. Human coexistence can be proved only in the form of an integral society, a universal system.
Therefore, identification of human relationships, fulfillment and evaluation of values ​​will be accomplished easily. both these situations
As a result of natural opulence, the combined method of life and body is established in the object of planned labor.
It becomes easy to evaluate on the basis of utility and artistic value, this is basically what currency and symbol are.
Is an option.

Money and labor value:- Money and symbol currencies have been prevalent in communities in various ways till now.
The numbers written on metals are called currency. By printing the same numbers on paper,
The symbol is called currency. Both are not attainments. Whatever attainment there is; those related to food, shelter, adornment
And there are items related to television, telecast and tele-audience. The usefulness of all this is clear. make good use of them
Have to do it too. Currency and Symbols Currency cannot be used, leave alone its proper use.
Therefore an alternative to this confusion was necessary. Its alternative is employment of labor, evaluation of labor value.
And there is only labor exchange. The exchange value of goods is found to be based on labor employment.
Therefore, it is easily possible to evaluate things. Valuation of goods is the valuation of labour. object
The exchange of goods is the exchange of labour. Thus valuation of labor and adoption of labor exchange system
Is accessible. Due to which treason, rebellion and exploitation automatically subside. Its speed must be human total
Wants. Thus we come to the conclusion that:-

, Labor value can be recognized.

Labor value can be evaluated on the basis of utility and art of the product produced.
Labor exchange is an innate human need.

ri 7

Labor exchange can be done in the form of barter.

The evaluation of labor value is found to be based on labor planning on natural opulence. labor planning
Even today it is based on natural opulence. Mutual betrayal by taking him into the trap of symbolic value
The human race has decorated a big shop of thousands of floors. Most of all in this business
Interest is seen in humans. At its core is collection, at the root of collection is enjoyment. enjoyment of convenience
In the pursuit of this, commercialism has been accepted by the human psyche in large numbers. business basically
There is no production, whereas the public mind considered service as the most sacred between production and consumer.
Is accepted. The proof of this is that the merchant has faith in the price at which he sold the item.


<newpage>

206 Intermediate philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Man has been doing it. Most people still believe. As of now, in many countries,
The name under which the item is sold is different from the inherent quality of the item or
One can see a man satisfying his desire for profit by selling distorted items. like stones in rice
Selling by mixing. Similarly, adulteration has also been observed in medicines. This is due to profit mania
Comes. The profit remains appropriated as a collection. This example is given here because
While buying things, humans naturally buy with confidence. Uselessness of that thing
And it is natural to suffer in a situation of choice. This shows that the evaluation of values
In law, what is more or less in evaluation creates two situations of its own type.
Secondly, it is also understood that the sanctity and quality of the item has been questioned? so
In the human system, every person is a participant in the system, hence business mentalities are prevalent in the village.
It is natural for original production and prosperity to develop in a simple mindset.

Prosperity is self-evident as a proof of participation in the system. meaning of yourself
Destiny is easily understood. Complete human achievements - solution, prosperity, fearlessness, coexistence
It is only there. This is the simple proof of the art of living in this system, for and for. Solution in order to participate in the system,
Prosperity was found easily. It may be a question for intellectuals whether chaos prevails in majority community traditions.
How will it be possible to live according to the system and in an easy way? He was seen, treated and evaluated as
It is said that the possibility of becoming more awakened by tradition remains expedient. This was mentioned earlier also
Has been done In this sequence, no intellectual can deny the possibility of existence of such a person in every present time.
can't. In evidence of this, many researches using materialistic method are not prevalent in the knowledge tradition.
Was. Similarly, in the idealistic method also, many great men expressed themselves in an original form, whose
Guna Gatha can be seen being performed with respect and faith even today. in the same destiny
That is, intermediate philosophy in the awakening process, knowledge of life before expressing coexistence, philosophy of existence.
And it was only after seeing the humane conduct in an easy way, that the book was written.
The process was started.

In the course of living life with philosophy of existence, knowledge of life, conduct full of humanity, it has been observed that life
With knowledge comes confidence in oneself. It became easy to respect excellence. to life knowledge
Enlightened and brought into concept by some people and as a result of their thinking and practice


<newpage>

critical materialism 207

In them too, self-confidence and respect for superiority was proven. So, saw this in this order
It was found that a balance was established between personality and talent. As evidence of which social, business
The need for self-reliance was felt naturally, it was accepted, and it was lived in the same manner. Therefore in itself, from,
As a result of having evidence for, humans have believed in the possibility of having evidence for, from.
It is because of this truth that this expression has been presented to man.

In the above sequence the awakening became clear. This philosophy of existence is expressed as the combined glory of life knowledge.
Hui. Due to this glory, humane conduct was understood in a polarized and balanced manner. its people
The easy possibility of commercialization was also understood. And the ideology came through two methods, where control
It came to the point, this was also understood. Existential human centered thinking all in simple light
When I understood the solution to the points of concern, I thought it appropriate to present it.

Life knowledge is disseminated to the public, it was also used in the best educational institutions. it

Evidence has been found that it is communicated. As a result, he believed in eliminating mystery. Thus

Every person can experiment and see for himself after becoming proficient in the knowledge of life:-

4. Have confidence in oneself.

2. There is respect for superiority.

3. Freedom from mystery is found in life itself.

4. After awakening, man becomes a divine man, a divine man, this truth is understood. As a result Goddess-
One gets freedom from the mystery related to God.

5. The philosophy of existence happens naturally. As a result, one gets freedom from the mystery related to God.

6. Existence itself makes sense in terms of coexistence.

Through this method, the solution to find out the unknown is easily understood. Thus religious mysteries
Through the method of co-existence, the creation of a universal system and an integral society with prosperity and its
In continuity, the work effort started with complete understanding for, from.

As said above, after a human being is proficient in the knowledge of life in any country and time, personality and
With balance in talent, it is possible to be social in behavior and self-reliant in business. it from one
Seen in more people. On these grounds, family, family group, village, locality, family, village
Group family, Area family, Mandal family, Mandal group family, Main state family, Main state family,


<newpage>

208 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

World state families will also be social in behavior and self-reliant in business. It's about having balance in tradition
There is evidence. Every human family is able to be evaluated only as a human being. prosperity and solution
There is proof of self-reliance and sociality. The evidence is present in the tradition, from, for, in the family.
This also made it clear that if there is no family, there is no evidence.

Every human being is basically a lover of happiness. It is manifested in humans in the form of hope or in the form of desire.
It is found in the form. Continuity of its success, destiny, spontaneous arrangement and participation in the system.
are a function of. As a result of confusion regarding the entire tradition system, each human being in his own
Being imaginative, it became a compulsion to come into mindset through interest based method. of history
According to this, the concept of heaven is also an interesting description. interest, spontaneous imagination, sense-approach
Are on the basis. Indriya Sannikarsh is found to be in the form of word, touch, form, taste, smell. of this
Being interesting is seen as being uninteresting.

There is no rule of uniformity or universality of interest. To remove the interest based mentality
The only proposal for salvation or transformation was preached as salvation. His
For this, the proposal of dispassionate character, spiritual practice and its sequence is also presented before the human being. see also
It was found that in despair the human even offered himself. Despite all this, any
The universal system in tradition did not emerge and emerge in the public mind. or because of this void
It became easy for the common man to run his imagination through interest based system. resulting in chaos
After this, chaos started again. The basic issue is unbroken in the order of devotion, detachment, enjoyment and accumulation.
The society, the universal system, the sutras, explanations and programs could not become public knowledge. let alone practice
Remained the same. In today's situation, considering the mentality of maximum collection, enjoyment or folk mentality.
Recognizing the system has become an inevitable situation. In favor of this i.e. universal system
Sukhachatika (expectation of happiness) is the only sutra in favor of recognizing all human beings. happiness easy formula
The explanation itself can be trusted and can be used, practiced, proven, and disseminated.
The program appears.

Its basic pole is the equation of life knowledge, existential philosophy and humane conduct. For this
Existence is a simple formula, coexistence is easy to explain, study has become accessible. hence, humane method
And it became easier to recognize the system. Putting it into practical form and making it public is our goal.


<newpage>

critical materialism 209

There is loyalty and duty. The happiness, behavior and programs achieved through this method become easily accessible.
The possibility has arrived. On the basis of this possibility, every human being including humanity, the system and the whole
By identifying the program of participating in the system in the order of family based self-rule system.

Can sustain. Only through this can every human being experience happiness, peace, prosperity, fearlessness and coexistence.
Will do.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

240 Intermediate philosophy Co-existenceism (existential human-centric thinking)

2) Materiality, expression, culture and order

The entire manifestation is ever present as nature united in being. The present is the eternal truth.
Presently, there is experience in coexistence, status of a visionary and awakened human tradition. to be certified
This is the proof of being a true seer. There is life only in the nature which is full of all-pervasive existence and in life itself.
Awakening is proved. This has been proven to be an easy task. human beings on this earth,
The combined form of body and life is luminous and expressive. entire plant in evolutionary sequence
The world is expressed in the form of life. This is the glory of material things, it has been understood. Development,
It has been observed to occur in atoms. In such atoms, 'life' comes into existence only after being infected with consciousness.
Is. This “life” shows its glory in the form of complete living beings in the biographical sequence. humans in awakening order
It is also an expression of awareness. In this way the nature saturated with power is expressed in four states.
It is named as Mataravastha, Pranavastha, Jeevavastha and Gyanavastha.

Matter, life, life state, spontaneous activities are found to be regular, controlled and balanced. state of knowledge
It is still awaited for humans to remain controlled, regular and balanced within themselves. on this earth
Till now no such path has been found for everyone, by which every community, family, individual can be moderate,
Can be controlled. Can be regular and can experience happiness, meaning, solution and beauty. Its
At its core, the main contradictory element is the fear of inhumanity inherent in humans. If the totality of inhumanity
If we assess the form then in the form of war, exploitation, other-wealth, other-woman, other-man, other-suffering, business, job etc.
Is visible in. All these are huge forms of inhumanity. war, technology, power-centric governance
And a person trapped in business activities naturally dedicates himself to collecting.
Are. The more a human being suffers from self-doubt and fear, the more he seeks happiness and relief from collection.
hopes for. To collect again inhuman deeds, acts and incidents as soon as they occur.
has come. Still happening.

4. Man is doing exploitative acts in a profit-oriented manner.

Accumulation through sensual pleasures is only creating more pain.

All preparations have been made for the war incident and

Environmental problems have occurred.

ri 7


<newpage>

critical materialism 244

In environmental problems, issues related to climate, earth and forests have been considered. all of these earth's atmosphere
I had maintained completeness. Ever since humans considered themselves developed on the basis of war, exploitation and accumulation.
Since then it seemed that all the substances present in the earth's atmosphere started depleting. origin of confusion
The reason was technology. There is only one salvation and that is humanity. humanely humane
Can get freedom from inhumanity. This is the awakening required by, for, and in all human beings.

Humane method, system, policy, art of living as holistic solution in all fields.
The environment of this earth can be enriched again only in case of adoption; population control, pollution
Being free from carbon dioxide and having fuel (energy) resources mostly from sources found in the earth's surface.
are possible. The way, how fast, the balance of the Earth's atmosphere is deteriorating. just for balance
Solution materialism is presented. Getting certified depends on the inclination of every human being. its root cause
Balance and imbalance are natural effects in the earth including “magnetic effect”. This earth itself is solid, liquid, rare
It is in the completeness of things that it maintains its completeness. The important point in this completeness is-
In this Earth, North and South Pole are found. The balance between these two, the magnetic field between
is the effect stream. It is in itself a constant flow, tied from pole to pole. Same, in the earth's surface
It is established in the form of electric current, hence the presence of electric waves is found in the entire environment. Now!
All the messing that has happened with the earth due to the development and developed hypotheses till now.
According to this, the magnetic effect which is present in the center of the Earth in a stable form, produces a magnetic field.
is also a possibility. If such balance turns into imbalance then the solid form of this earth will be distorted.
Changes are possible. This fact may become a point for testing in the coming days.

There is an urgent need to inculcate the art of humane living in every community.
Humans should accept. As a result, every community gets infected in human consciousness and every male and female human consciousness becomes infected.
Equal opportunity and possibility for pre-certification should be available.

On the basis of the facts explained above, war, exploitation, profitable business, profit, power-centered governance
Evaluating development on this basis and taking it for granted is both wrong and will remain wrong. This only
It has been seen in human beings, Sahi i.e. co-existence in the natural sense of correctness, actuality, truthfulness when
Till those who are called knowledgeable, ignorant and scientists will not understand, they will continue to believe in their imaginations or
Will continue to consider imaginary decisions and madness as truth. In this way, despite being far away from the truth in humans,


<newpage>

242 Mediator Philosophy Co-existence (existential human-centric thinking)

Found my confused imaginings to be true. Coexistence of reality, reality, truthfulness
Understanding universality as innate splendor and testing, observing, surveying it in practice.
It has been possible to identify. Only humans do this work. Until such a situation arises,
The proof of awakening in humans will not be proved.

Therefore, the easy solution for this is to understand and adopt the family-oriented self-rule system. This is life knowledge,
Make it successful through existential philosophy, knowledge and humane conduct. Only because of this this earth will become heaven. only human
There will be gods. Only humans will be certified in the category of gods. Human religion means universal system, united society
will succeed. As a result, daily auspiciousness, solution, happiness and meaningful aesthetic sense will be accessible to everyone.

, Nityam yatu shubhodayam ॥

Bhoomi: Swargatam Yaatu, Manusho Yaatu Devatam.

Gharmo successam yaatu, nityam yaatu shubhodayam.

>R0-5707 0 0 05Ranar


<newpage>

original text

“Existential human centered thinking”
Vs
“Mediated Philosophy Coexistenceism”

Darshan (Mediated Darshan)
*«Philosophy of human behavior
« Philosophy of Human Karma
*« Philosophy of Human Practice
«Philosophy of Human Experience

Ism (Coexistenceism)
« Behavioral democracy
« Resolve Materialism
« Experiential Spiritualism

Shastra (existential human centered thinking)
« Behavioral Sociology
* « circular economics
« Human Consciousness Psychology

Constitution
« Interpretation of the human constitutional formula in the form of human code of conduct

Definition
« Definition Code

Other
*« Options and study points
« Health Century


<newpage>

Useful compilation based on intermediate philosophy

introductory collection
«» Jeevan Vidya An Introduction
« Divine Path (Biography – Rev. Shri A. Nagaraj)

collaborative compilation
«Dialogue Part-॥
« Dialogue Part - 2

Published Book Receipt Email:

000/580958-02॥.00

Download published and unpublished original copy:

4475430॥5859॥.06

general enquiry :

॥Ra08095958-02॥.009

Bhikshvapraksha echlajya nana[dhantaga 20tha9|/
“Jeevan Vidya? Activity Information:

44/7457-॥30॥587॥-0/॥धा 0



<newpage>



<newpage>



<newpage>



<newpage>



<newpage>

